The Rocky Mountains
The Rocky Mountains stretch through western North America.
In the northern parts, there are glaciers.
Here there are many species of mammals, such as marmots, grizzly bears, and bison.
The highest peak is Mount Elbert (4,399 m) in the USA.
The Appalachians
The Appalachians are in eastern North America.
The highest peak is Mount Mitchell (2,037 m).
Large parts of the mountain range are covered with forest.
There are many national parks with animals such as black bears and wild turkeys.
The Alps
The Alps are a high mountain range in central Europe.
The highest peak is Mont Blanc (4,807 m).
In the Alps, there are several important mountain passes, such as the Great St. Bernard Pass.
The Andes
The Andes are the world's longest mountain range with many peaks over 6,000 meters.
The highest peak is Aconcagua (6,962 m) in Argentina.
There are several volcanoes here, and earthquakes are also common.
In the Andes live, among others, the vicuña (a camelid), puma, and condor, which is one of the world's largest flying birds.
The Atlas Mountains
The Atlas Mountains are in northwestern Africa.
The mountain range separates the Sahara Desert from the coastal area.
The highest peak is Toubkal (4,165 m) in Morocco.
There is snow on the highest peaks despite being close to the Sahara Desert.
Tian Shan
Tian Shan stretches through northwestern China and southeastern Kyrgyzstan.
The highest peak is Pik Pobedy (7,439 m).
The mountain range has several high plateaus, sharp peaks, and glaciers.
Himalayas
The tallest mountains in the world are in the Himalayas in Asia.
Here we find the world's 14 highest mountain peaks.
The highest is Mount Everest (8,848 m).
Do you know about Mount Everest?
The average temperature on Mount Everest is -27°C, but it can drop to -60°C.
Sir Edmund Hillary (United Kingdom) and Tenzing Norgay (Nepal) are considered the first to climb to the top of Mount Everest.
They succeeded on May 29, 1953.
More than 150 climbers have lost their lives attempting to climb Mount Everest.
On May 23, 1996, the Swede Göran Kropp climbed Mount Everest without oxygen equipment.
Before that, he had cycled all the way from Stockholm to the mountain.
After climbing the mountain, he cycled back to Stockholm again.