Living at high altitude
In the Andes, there are many towns and villages that are situated at very high altitudes.
One of the capitals of Bolivia, La Paz, is 4,000 meters above sea level and is the world's highest located major city.
The city is thus almost twice as high as the peak of Kebnekaise.
At such a high altitude, the air is significantly thinner because it contains less oxygen.
If you were to visit La Paz, you would immediately feel that you were at high altitude.
The thin air makes even a short walk uphill more tiring than one might think.
This is because the body does not receive as much oxygen.
If one is unaccustomed to being at high altitudes, one can suffer from altitude sickness.
One becomes dizzy and nauseous, but after a week most people get used to the high altitude.
The runways at La Paz airport are longer than at other airports because air resistance is significantly lower at such a high altitude.
Building cities and living at very high altitudes involves some problems.
It is difficult to build roads and railways to these places.
Therefore, aviation is important for major cities like La Paz to function.
But it is troublesome to transport goods to the small villages around the city.
It is also difficult to engage in agriculture as few crops thrive at such high altitudes.
The climate is often windy and cold.
Tierra del Fuego
In the southernmost South America, there is an archipelago called Tierra del Fuego.
The archipelago is divided between Argentina and Chile.
From here, it's not far to Antarctica, and therefore it is freezing cold.
In Tierra del Fuego, there are high mountains with glaciers, but also large grass areas where sheep graze.
The people who live here work with sheep farming and fishing.
There are also oil deposits offshore.
A long time ago, Indians lived in Tierra del Fuego.
When Spanish sailors approached the archipelago, they saw burning fires on the water.
It was the Indians who transported campfires between the islands.
So Tierra del Fuego got its name.
The Indians managed the freezing climate, even though they barely used any clothes.
But when the Spaniards came, many Indians were infected by various bacteria and viruses that the Europeans brought, and many of the Indians died.
Today, no Indians from Tierra del Fuego remain.
The southernmost point of South America, Cape Horn, is located in Tierra del Fuego.
Cape Horn used to be a feared area for sailors.
There is often fog here and strong winds blow from the South Pole.
Many ships have been wrecked in the area off Cape Horn.