Asia is the largest continent both in terms of area and population.
More than half of the world's population lives here.
The two most populous countries in the world, China and India, are in the continent.
Both countries have a population of more than 1 billion people.
Southeast Asia is one of the most densely populated areas on Earth.
But in Asia there are also areas that are almost completely uninhabited, such as the great mountain range Himalayas and Siberia.
In Asia, all four climate zones are represented, meaning the climate ranges from biting cold in the north to tropical heat in the south.
In the north lies Siberia, a large tundra area stretching over large parts of Russia and Kazakhstan.
The cold climate makes the nature in Siberia barren with hardly any vegetation at all.
Because it is difficult to cultivate and build in the frozen ground, not many people live here.
In the winters, it can get really cold.
It is not uncommon for temperatures to go down to −50°C.
Southern and eastern Asia have a monsoon climate.
Monsoons are winds that follow the seasons.
During the summer, the winds blow from the ocean onto the continent.
They bring moisture and consequently heavy rains that last for several months.
In winter, it is the opposite.
Then cold and dry winds blow from the continent out to the sea.
The world's religions have their origins in Asia.
Christianity, Islam, Judaism, Hinduism, and Buddhism originated in different parts of Asia.
The religions have since spread across the world.
Size:
44 million km²
Population:
4,216 million
Largest country by area:
Russia 17 million km²
(37 times larger than Sweden, located in both Europe and Asia)
China, 9.6 million km²
(21 times larger than Sweden)
Largest country by population:
China, 1,365 million inhabitants
Largest city:
Shanghai, 16 million inhabitants
(Tokyo 33 million in the metropolitan area)
Longest river:
Chang Jiang (Yangtze River), 6,300 km
Largest lake:
Caspian Sea, 374,000 km²
Highest mountain:
Mount Everest, 8,848 m above sea level.