North America is about twice as large as Europe.
The three major countries Canada, USA, and Mexico are included in North America.
Greenland and all countries in Central America and the Caribbean are also included here.
The original inhabitants of North America are the Native Americans.
From the end of the 1400s, many Europeans came to North America.
The Native Americans were pushed aside and many died from diseases brought by the Europeans.
Several wars were fought between the Native Americans and the "whites," often leaving the Native Americans with no chance.
Today, about 1 million Native Americans live in so-called reservations, which were established during the 1800s.
Most of North America's inhabitants are descendants of African slaves or Europeans.
People from many different countries have influenced North American culture, and the major languages are therefore English and Spanish.
North America extends far in the north-south direction.
Therefore, there are many different climate types on the continent, from polar climate in Greenland and northern Canada to tropical climate in parts of Central America.
There are no mountain ranges or other natural barriers running east-west across the North American continent.
This allows air masses to move quickly from north to south.
Snow and cold winds can reach far south, and warm air masses can flow far north.
North America is rich in natural resources.
Here, there are large deposits of almost all metals as well as oil and hydropower.
On both sides of the border between Canada and the USA lies the world's largest freshwater area, the Great Lakes.
Size:
24.4 million km²
Population:
546 million
Largest country by area:
Canada, 9.97 million km² (22 times larger than Sweden)
Largest country by population:
USA, 317.7 million inhabitants
Largest city:
Mexico City, 8.6 million inhabitants (Mexico City 22.1 million in the metropolitan area)
Longest river:
Mississippi, 6 020 km
Largest lake:
Lake Superior, 82 700 km²
Highest mountain:
Mount McKinley, 6 194 m above sea level