The Maldives.
The Maldives is an archipelago in the northern part of the Indian Ocean.
The country consists of more than 2,000 islands and atolls.
An atoll is a ring-shaped coral reef that rises above the sea surface.
Inside the reef is a lagoon.
The clear blue lagoons, along with wide sandy beaches and palm trees, have made the Maldives a paradise for tourists.
The Maldives is one of the lowest lying countries in the world.
The islands reach just a few meters above sea level.
Some scientists believe that sea levels will rise in the future due to climate change.
Then large parts of the Maldives risk disappearing completely.
The vulnerability of the islands was clearly noticed when a tsunami hit countries around the Indian Ocean in 2004.
The giant wave caused large parts of the Maldives to be submerged.
When the water receded, the appearance of the islands had changed so much that maps of the country no longer matched.
Exciting construction projects in Dubai.
Dubai is a part of the United Arab Emirates, located on the Arabian Peninsula.
Dubai has become famous for all the exciting construction projects underway here.
Here is the world's tallest building, the Burj Dubai skyscraper, which is more than 800 meters high and has 162 floors.
Another major project is the artificial islands being built along the coast.
One of them is the 5-kilometer-long island, Palm Jumeirah, which is shaped like a palm tree.
It is considered the world's largest artificial island.
On the island, there are luxury residences and hotels.
A similar facility is The World, where the goal is to build the whole world in miniature, in the form of 300 islands.
The construction projects in Dubai are carried out by thousands of guest workers from poor countries in Asia.
They often work under very poor conditions.
Their wages are low, and it's common to work seven days a week.
Did you know that...
...it is said that the Great Wall of China can be seen from the moon.
This is not true.
The wall is admittedly long, but far too narrow to be visible from such a long distance.