South Africa
From apartheid to democracy.
South Africa was ruled for a long time by a small group of white people.
The government decided that whites should live separated from colored, blacks, and Asians.
Harsh penalties awaited those who broke the laws.
Marriage between whites and blacks/colored was strictly forbidden and only the white population could live in the nicer residential areas.
The blacks were relegated to poor and overcrowded suburbs.
Signs clearly indicated who could sit on park benches, ride buses, or go to restaurants.
The blacks, who constituted the majority of the population, were not allowed to vote and people could sit in prison for a long time without a trial.
This system is called apartheid.
The rest of the world protested against what was happening and several countries stopped buying goods from South Africa.
The pressure from the outside world along with the growing black population eventually led to the end of the apartheid system.
In 1994, universal suffrage was introduced and Nelson Mandela, who had fought against apartheid for many years, became the country's first black president.
Nelson Mandela was imprisoned for 27 years due to his fight against apartheid.
He was released in 1990 and four years later became South Africa's first black president.
In 1993, he was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize.
The Pyramids
The famous pyramids are located in the city of Giza, near Egypt's capital Cairo.
They were built about 4,500 years ago as grave monuments for pharaohs (Egyptian kings).
The three largest pyramids Cheops, Chefren, and Mykerinos are named after three pharaohs.
The pyramids are built of large stone blocks that weigh about 2.5 tons each.
Even today, scientists speculate about how people managed to build the pyramids at a time when there were no machines.
One theory is that the stone blocks were pulled on sleds or logs, and that they built ramps to get the stones to the top.
The pyramids, which are almost 150 meters high, were for 4,000 years the world's tallest structures.
Only in the 15th century was the record surpassed by the cathedral in Strasbourg.
The pyramids in Egypt are considered one of the seven wonders of the world.