The continent in the area around the South Pole is called Antarctica and is the coldest place on Earth.
Almost all of Antarctica is covered by an ice sheet several kilometers thick, only a small part at the coast is free of ice.
Only mosses, lichens, and algae grow there.
The sea around Antarctica, on the other hand, is rich in life.
Seals, whales, and penguins thrive in the cold water.
The cold and inhospitable climate means that no permanent residents live here.
Only a few thousand people are in Antarctica each year.
Most of them are scientists living at one of the research stations located here.
Antarctica does not belong to any single country.
The rules that apply to Antarctica were determined in the Antarctic Treaty in 1961.
It states, among other things, that Antarctica can only be used for peaceful purposes and that work should be done to preserve and protect Antarctica's unique environment.
Everyone who wants to travel to Antarctica must apply for permission.
Each application must include a description of how the environment in Antarctica is impacted by the trip.
For a long time, Antarctica was an unknown part of the world.
The British seaman Edward Bransfield is often called the discoverer of Antarctica.
He found Antarctica in 1820.
It was not until the late 1800s that serious exploration of the continent began.
In the early 1900s, there was a race between different countries to reach the South Pole first.
In 1911, the Norwegian Roald Amundsen reached the South Pole and thus won the race.
His opponent, the Englishman Robert Scott, arrived a month later.
Harsh weather, exhaustion, and lack of food meant that none of Scott’s party survived the journey back.
They were found frozen to death the following year.
Under the thick ice of Antarctica, several lakes have been discovered, which is somewhat of a mystery.
Some of the lakes are actually quite warm.
The largest lake is Lake Vostok.
It has an area about the size of Skåne and is one of the world's largest lakes.
Since the lake is under an ice sheet several kilometers thick, it has been isolated from the outside world for about 20 million years.
With the help of laser and radar measurements from aircraft, a map of the lake has been made.
In the future, scientists hope to find out if there is life in Lake Vostok.
Size: 14.2 million km²
Population: No permanent inhabitants
Largest city: There are no cities, but about 1200 people live at McMurdo (a research station) during the summer.
Longest river: Onyx, 30 km
Largest lake: Lake Vostok (the lake is under the ice sheet)
Highest mountain: Mount Wilhelm, 4,509 m above sea level.