Europe is the second smallest continent.
Here live 740 million inhabitants.
Despite Europe being small in area, it consists of many countries with different cultures and languages.
Europe is a rich continent compared to the other continents.
But even within Europe, the differences between countries are quite large.
The richest part is the western and northern part.
Europe is a continent that is both united and divided.
There are many independent states gathered on a small area here.
This has historically created tensions between countries and peoples.
But it has also made cooperation necessary.
What has divided Europe for hundreds of years are all the wars.
Ever since Roman times, numerous large and small wars have been fought.
Many wars have been about the right to territories.
The most devastating wars have been the two world wars during the 20th century.
It was mainly in Europe that the world wars were fought with millions killed and great destruction of cities, roads, transport, and more.
A later major conflict in Europe is the wars in former Yugoslavia in the early 1990s.
The wounds and discord after all the wars have left their mark on cooperation between certain countries.
What has united Europe is that despite the wars, there is much in common.
Several countries speak the same or similar languages, for example, Sweden and Norway, as well as Belgium and France.
Even trade between European countries is something that unites Europe.
The big step towards a more united Europe is, of course, the creation of the European Union, the EU.
It has been a work in progress for more than 50 years.
Size:
10.6 million km²
Population:
740 million
Largest country by area*:
Russia, 17 million km²
(37 times larger than Sweden)
Largest country by population*:
Russia, 143 million inhabitants
Largest city:
Moscow, 12 million inhabitants (Istanbul 13.8 million, located in both Europe and Asia)
Longest river:
Volga, 3,700 km
Largest lake:
Ladoga, 17,700 km²
Highest mountain:
Elbrus, 5,642 m a.s.l.
(*The figures for area and population in Russia apply to the whole country, i.e., also the part located in Asia.)