Lee takes a deep breath.
Lee tar ett djupt andetag.
	
He blows out the thirteen candles on the cakes.
Han blåser ut de tretton ljusen på tårtorna.

Lee takes the first packet.
Lee tar det första paketet.

He rips off the paper.
Han river av papperet.

Lee picks up the last package, shakes it, and opens it carefully.
Lee plockar upp det sista paketet, skakar det och öppnar det försiktigt.

Unit four,
page 72 exercise f
listening activity.
What am I?
You are going to hear some things describe what they are.
After each description.
You have to guess what the thing is and draw it on the paper in front of you.

Number one,
you need me to play this sport.
I try to hit a small white plastic ball over a net and onto the other side of a table,
use me to serve or smash the ball and if you're good enough, you can score points.
I look like a big flat lollipop, but I don't taste nice at all.
What am I?

Number two?
I am a small thing.
Put me in your pocket and no one can see me
most of the time. I'm as quiet as a mouse. Although I'm not a mouse,
I can help you see in the dark. Although I am not a lamp,
I can tell you what time it is. Although I'm not a clock,
I can wake you up. Although I'm not your mum or dad,
I can play games with you. Although I'm not a dog,
I can send messages for you. Although I'm not a postman,
I can help you to talk to people. Although I'm not a microphone.
What am I?

Number three?
I am black and then I am white,
then black again
and then white, black, white, black, white. That's me.
I'm not a chameleon.
I'm more like a zebra.
Maybe you think I'm boring. But I'm important for so many people.
I can stop cars, buses and motorcycles.
All you have to do is stand next to me and traffic waits for you.
When you get to the other side of me,
my magic stops working and the traffic drives over me.
What am I?

Number four?
I normally live in a box.
If you want to see me, then you must wait until I come out at night.
I don't have eyes or ears or a tail.
But be careful with me.
I don't have teeth or claws,
but I can be dangerous.
Animals don't like me because I scare them.
Ask an adult to put me in the ground.
I cannot run away,
but I can fly even though I have no wings
light me like a candle stand back and wait
when I'm ready, I'll make a loud noise and show you my colors.
So
when can you see me
bonfire night? And New Year's Eve are the best times.
What am I?