Netherlands.
A low-lying country.
The Netherlands is a small country located on the North Sea.
Almost half of the country's surface is actually below sea level.
The large areas that have been drained are called polders.
The largest part of the surface of the Netherlands is today agricultural land.
One cannot help but notice the country's vast tulip plantations.
The tulip bulbs are exported to many countries.
Windmill by canal.
Nature and natural resources.
The Netherlands is a small country.
It is about as big as Skåne and Småland combined.
Still, 16 million people live here.
The Netherlands is a distinct lowland with very fine arable land and good pasture.
Several rivers flow through the country and canals have been built in many places.
The Netherlands has modern agriculture.
Vegetables and flowers are grown here, which are sold to other countries.
They also have plenty of dairy cows.
Many good cheeses are made in the Netherlands.
Gouda, Maasdamer and Edamer are three well-known types of cheese.
Anne Frank was a Jewish girl from Amsterdam.
During World War II, Anne and her family hid in an attic for two years.
Eventually the family was discovered and taken to a German prison camp.
Anne was only 16 years old when she died in the camp.
Her diary from this terrible time was published as a book after the end of the war.
Skating on ice-covered canals.
Important cities and places.
Amsterdam is the capital of the Netherlands.
The city is criss-crossed by canals and some of the city's inhabitants actually live on flat barges.
Amsterdam is also known for the diamond trade.
Here, diamonds are cut into valuable jewelry.
The country's parliament or government is not located in Amsterdam. They are instead in The Hague.
Rotterdam has one of the world's largest ports.
Here is also the stately Erasmus Bridge, which is 139 meters high.
In many places in the country there are large facilities, which show fantastic shows with dolphins and killer whales.
In winter, the country's canals often freeze to ice.
Then many take the opportunity to bring out the long-distance skates.
The Netherlands is often referred to as Holland.
But Holland is really just a part of the country of the Netherlands.