Germany. Brandenburg Gate in Berlin.
Nature and natural resources.
Northern Germany is a low country with plenty of farmland and lakes.
The further south you go, the more hilly the landscape becomes.
In the south, Germany meets the huge mountain range of the Alps.
Germany is an important industrial country.
But you have to import a lot of raw materials, as the country's own natural resources are not enough.
From Sweden you buy e.g. iron, steel and pulp.
Germany's major exports are cars, trains, electrical appliances, pharmaceuticals, beer and wine.
Along the Rhine and Mosel rivers are large vineyards.
Up on the heights, many old knights' castles can be seen.
These areas attract thousands of tourists every year.
The German part of the Alps has many tourist facilities,
which attracts visitors both in summer and winter.
Moselle valley.
Previously, there were two Germanys and two Berlins.
During the Second World War, which lasted between the years 1939 -1945,
the capital Berlin was bombed so hard that not much was left of the city.
After the war, Germany was divided into two parts, West Germany and East Germany.
The city of Berlin was also divided into two parts, West Berlin and East Berlin.
Many East Berliners then fled from East Berlin to West Berlin,
because people were much better off in the West.
In order to prevent East Berliners from escaping to West Berlin, East Germany decided in 1961 that a high stone wall would be built between West Berlin and East Berlin.
When the wall was built, many families were split up.
People ended up on different sides of the wall.
But at the end of the 1980s, the protests against the Berlin Wall grew bigger and bigger.
The people of East Berlin wanted the wall to be torn down.
More and more people demonstrated and demanded that the wall be demolished.
In the end, there were so many protests that the East German government did not dare to resist.
The Berlin Wall was torn down in 1989 and the country of Germany was reunited the following year.
Berlin will once again be the capital of Germany.
Berlin became the new capital of Germany in 1991.
In the now bustling entertainment city, the famous streets Unter den Linden and Kurfurstendamm spread out.
Another famous sight is the old and beautiful city gate Brandenburger Tor.
Berlin's tallest building is the TV Tower.
It is a whopping 365 meters high. Berliners call the tower the toothpick.