Water in Europe. 
Sea in Europe.
Europe is surrounded by several oceans. Below you can read a little more about the different oceans.
The Arctic Ocean is in the far north. It is the world's northernmost sea.
Thanks to the Gulf Stream, many ports are ice-free even though they are located in northern Europe and have a coast towards the Arctic Ocean.
The Baltic Sea is an inland sea to which Sweden, among other things, has a long coastline.
The Baltic Sea is one of the seas that has major problems with pollution and emissions.
The Atlantic Ocean is one of the Earth's three oceans. The other two are the Pacific Ocean and the Indian Ocean.
Countries such as Portugal, Spain, France, Ireland and Great Britain have coastlines facing the Atlantic.
The North Sea lies between the British Isles and the Scandinavian countries.
The North Sea is actually part of the Atlantic Ocean. In the North Sea, there are many countries that engage in fishing.
The Mediterranean Sea is a large inland sea in southernmost Europe.
By the Mediterranean it is sunny and warm and it rarely rains.
The Mediterranean beaches attract more than 100 million tourists every year.
The Black Sea is an inland sea that separates Europe from Asia.
The Black Sea is a brackish water sea. This means that the water is a mixture of both fresh water and salt water.
Water cycle.
All water on earth goes around in an eternal cycle.
The sun heats seas and lakes and water vapor is formed. The water evaporates.
As the water vapor rises upwards, it cools down.
The water vapor turns into small water droplets which then gather together to form clouds.
When the clouds sweep in over land, the water droplets become too heavy and fall as rain or snow.
Some rain seeps into the ground. There, the water collects in large cavities. This water is called groundwater.
Some rainwater collects in streams and rivers and flows back into the sea.
Of course, some rainwater ends up directly in the sea.
Then it all starts again with the sun heating the sea and the water evaporating.
groundwater.