Central Europe.
High mountains and long rivers.
In the region we call central Europe are the countries of Switzerland, Austria, Hungary, Liechtenstein, the Czech Republic and Slovakia.
Through several of these countries the huge mountain ranges of the Alps and the Carpathians spread out.
Several mountain peaks in the Alps are really high. Some of the highest are Mont Blanc (4810 m) Monte Rosa (4634 m) Gross Glockner (3792 m) and Matterhorn (4478 m).
In the Carpathians, the mountain peaks "Gerlachovsky stit" (2655 m) and Rysy (2499 m) are among the highest.
Several of Europe's rivers begin as small streams in the Alps or the Carpathians.
The rivers then continue to flow through the countries of central Europe.
The rivers Rhine and Rhone begin, for example, his journey in the Alps.
Other rivers rise in the Carpathian mountain range located in the Czech Republic and Slovakia.
Such rivers are the Elbe, Vlatava and Morava.
A third river, the Danube, begins in Germany but then flows through, among other things, three of the countries in central Europe,
namely Austria, Slovakia Hungary.
Map of the countries in central Europe.
FRANCE, BERN, SWITZERLAND, GERMANY, LIECHTENSTEIN, ITALY, PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC, VIENNA, AUSTRIA, SLOVENIA, POLAND,
SLOVAKIA, Bratislava, HUNGARY, Budapest, CROATIA, SERBIA, UKRAINE, ROMANIA,
Agriculture and mining.
Central Europe has several different natural resources.
Both in Austria and Hungary there are large plains that have become fertile arable land.
There, farmers grow grain, fruit, vegetables and other crops with good profit.
Many of the countries in central Europe are located in mountainous areas.
The mountains contain, among other things, coal, iron ore, bauxite and salt, which are mined in various mines.
Burning with coal produces pollution.
Coal has long been an important natural resource.
Mainly in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, hard coal and lignite have been mined from mines.
The coal has since been used to burn to obtain electricity and heat.
But burning coal creates pollutants that are harmful to people, animals and nature.
When carbon dioxide is released, the climate becomes warmer and sulfur emissions cause forests and waterways to become acidified.