Czech Republic. Charles Bridge (Karluv Most) in Prague.
Important cities and places. The capital of the Czech Republic is Prague.
In the city there are many old, beautiful buildings preserved.
Prague is located on the river Vlatava, which in German is called Moldau.
The bridge is crossed by the popular Karluv Most (Charles Bridge), which began to be built as early as the 14th century.
Prague is usually called the golden city.
The Czech Republic consists of the two parts Bohemia and Moravia.
In Bohemia are famous beer cities such as Plzen and Budejovice.
Bohemia is also known for its production of well-cut crystal glass.
Glass has been made here for hundreds of years.
The city of Ostrava is the center of Czech lignite mining.
Brno is the second largest city in the Czech Republic. There are several textile industries in the city.
Nature and natural resources.
For the most part, the Czech Republic consists of forested mountains.
In the north, the country borders the two mountain ranges Erzgebirge and Sudeten.
In the southeastern part of the country there is a lowland with fertile soil.
Hops are grown in the valleys of the Morava, Elbe and Vlatava rivers.
The world-famous Czech beer is made from hops.
The Czech Republic manufactures and sells many Skoda brand cars abroad.
Slovakia. The castle in Bratislava.
Important cities and places.
Slovakia is a small country in the middle of Europe. On the Danube lies the capital Bratislava.
The city has a large port. Motorcycles are manufactured in Bratislava which are also exported.
The castle in Bratislava is beautifully located on a hill.
Some think that the castle resembles an upside-down table.
Slovakia is something of a land of castles and citizens.
Slovakia's most visited castle is Bojnice.
Today there is a large Zoo adjacent to the castle.
The ruins of the old castle Spissky hrad belong to the World Heritage.
This means that the castle must be saved and preserved for the future.
Until 1993, the Czech Republic and Slovakia formed a country that was then called Czechoslovakia.
But the Slovaks wanted to become independent and therefore the country was divided.
Nature and natural resources.
Slovakia is a mountainous country with a lot of forest.
Here there are deep valleys and some mountain lakes.
In the north are the huge Tatra Mountains, which are part of the larger mountain range of the Carpathians.
In the southeastern part of the country there is fertile arable land and large grass plains, which are used as pasture.
On the southern slopes of the Tatra Mountains, grapes are grown for the production of wine.
What do you know about the Czech Republic and Slovakia?
Paint the flags. Czech Republic. Slovakia. Czech Republic map.
Take out your map book and look up the Czech Republic.
Which places are marked on the map next to this?
urban area. water. Mountain.
Slovakia map.
Take out your map book and look up Slovakia.
Which places are marked on the map next to this?