Hungary. Important cities and places. The capital Budapest was originally two cities.
It consists of the two cities of Buda and Pest. Buda is the oldest part.
While Pest is a more modern district. The Parliament House is Budapest's grandest building.
Many people visit Budapest to bathe in water from hot springs.
Such bathing facilities are called thermal baths.
Even in winter, the water gets so hot that you can actually swim outside.
Esztergom was the capital of Hungary until 1361.
The good dish goulash comes from the area around the city of Szeged.
In the Matra Mountains is Aggtelek, which has Europe's largest stalactite caves.
Franz Liszt was the name of a famous composer who was born in 1811 in a small village outside the city of Sopron.
Hungarian Rhapsodies and Liebestraum (Dream of Love) are among Franz Liszt's most famous works.
Thermal baths in Budapest. Nature and natural resources.
Did you know that the country of Hungary consists of one large and flat plain?
The Hungarians themselves call the plain Alföld.
Huge plantations of sunflowers, corn and peppers grow here.
Before the plain was cultivated, it was called the “pustan”.
Pusta just means plain in Hungarian.
In the southwest lies Lake Balaton, which is Central Europe's largest lake.
Many Hungarians and tourists go here to swim.
The lake is very shallow and never deeper than three meters.
Therefore, the bathing temperature in summer is always above 25 degrees!
In the Hungarian mountains there is plenty of bauxite.
Bauxite is a raw material from which aluminum can be produced.
The garlic-scented salami is a famous Hungarian sausage.
It is exported in large quantities to other countries.
Liechtenstein. The castle in Vaduz.
Liechtenstein is one of Europe's smallest countries.
It is located in the middle of the Alps between Switzerland and Austria.
The country also cooperates a lot with Switzerland.
Among other things, they have a common currency, which is called the Swiss franc.
Liechtenstein is a principality and one of the richest countries in Europe.
Part of the country's income comes from the sale of stamps and coins.
But the biggest income comes from winter tourism. The capital of the country is called Vaduz.
What do you know about Hungary? Paint the Hungarian flag.
Hungary map. Take out your map book and look up Hungary.
Which places are marked on the map next to this?
urban area. water. Questions about Hungary.
What is bauxite used for?
Tell me some facts about the capital Budapest.
Tell in your own words what you know about the plain called Alföld.