Transportation.
The countries of Europe and the rest of the world trade a lot with each other.
Some goods are imported, while other goods are exported.
Importing means buying goods from another country.
Exporting means selling goods to other countries.
Since the trade between the countries of Europe is large, a lot of transport is required.
Our most common means of transport are trucks, trains, ships and airplanes.
Europe has a well-developed network of various transport routes.
These are roads, railways, rivers and canals. In addition, boats transport goods at sea.
Airplanes have special airways, so that the airplanes will not collide.
Namely, it can get quite crowded up in the air, when many planes fly at the same time.
Transport by truck.
In recent decades, transport by truck has increased sharply.
This is largely due to the fact that the countries of Europe trade more and more with each other.
Transporting goods by truck is practical, 
as you can drive the goods all the way to their destination.
So no reloading is required. Suitable goods are e.g. food and wood products.
But there are also major disadvantages.
Trucks and cars release a lot of environmentally hazardous substances.
The exhaust gases contain, among other things, carbon dioxide, which makes the climate on earth warmer.
The emissions also contain sulphur, which damages our environment and our health.
Today, a lot of research is being done to find environmentally friendly means of transport.
Using fuel such as ethanol or rapeseed oil for cars and trucks can be a solution in the long run.
But more research will be needed if we are to cope with the problems of dangerous emissions.
Trucks emit environmentally hazardous substances.
Transport by boat.
Many goods are transported on seas, lakes, rivers and canals.
Then the goods are loaded onto different ships and boats.
The advantages of transporting goods by boat are that you can load large, 
and heavy goods and that the ships hold a lot of cargo.
Therefore, boats are a good alternative if you need to transport oil, grain, iron and cars.
Boats are also a more environmentally friendly means of transport than both trucks and airplanes because the emissions are not at all as great.
Unfortunately, the transport by boat often takes a long time.
In addition, there is always a risk of oil spills when using ship traffic.
Boats can carry a lot of cargo.