Romania. Romania was ruled by a dictator.
For many years, Romania was ruled by a dictator named Nicolae Ceausescu.
In 1989, the population of Romania revolted and overthrew Ceausescu.
Since then, the people of Romania have slowly gotten better, 
but there are still many who are having a hard time.
Today, Romania is one of the newer members of the EU, the European Union.
Nature and natural resources.
Romania is a mountainous country with large forests.
In the middle of the country stretches, like a great arc, the mighty mountain range of the Carpathians.
The highest peak in Romania. is called Moldoveanu and is 2,544 meters high.
In the mountains there are deposits of hard coal, as well as ores containing iron, lead, copper, zinc and uranium.
In the south-eastern part of the country there are large arable lands.
Here you can see large fields of wheat, corn, sunflowers, sugar beets and vegetables.
The great river Danube flows through Romania.
When the Danube flows into the Black Sea, a large delta has formed.
A delta is an area full of small rivers, islands and swamps. 
Birds thrive in this delta.
Pelicans, herons and, of course, Europe's heaviest bird, which is called the stork, nest here.
It can weigh up to 18 kg.
By the Black Sea, there are many seaside resorts with long inviting beaches.
For us Swedes, Mamaia is probably the most famous tourist resort.
Just south of Mamaia is Constanta, which is the country's largest port city.
Herons and pelicans in the Danube Delta.
Important cities and places.
The capital of Romania is Bucharest and is located in the southern part of the country.
In the city, many large buildings remain from the communist era.
The old royal palace Athenaeum in Bucharest is today converted into a concert hall.
Brasov is Romania's major winter sports resort.
Here you can ski down the slopes of the Carpathians.
At Sibiu is the ruin of the huge castle Burgen Slinic, 
which today is visited by many tourists.
In the city of artists Tirgu Jiu stands a strange monument - The Endless Pillar.
Count Dracula. is the story of a vampire who sucked human blood.
His role model lived in the 15th century,
and was called Vlad III Dracula Tepes,
and is said to have been at least as cruel as the stories' Count Dracula.