Croatia. Important cities and places.
Croatia became a separate country in 1991.
After a five-year war, the country broke away from the former Yugoslavia in 1995.
The country's capital is Zagreb, located on the Sava River.
In southern Dalmatia is the thousand-year-old city of Dubrovnik.
The beautiful medieval town is surrounded by a well-preserved wall.
In northern Croatia, the region of Istria with all its historical sites is located.
In the city of Pula there is a large Roman theater.
Rijeka has a large port with several shipyards.
Plitvice Lakes is a very popular national park.
There are sparkling waterfalls and beautiful landscapes.
Among Croatians, it is popular to get married in the park.
In Split there is a magnificent Roman palace.
The palace is one of the best preserved Roman buildings in the world.
Zadar has a beautiful fishing village, which many tourists visit.
Dubrovnik. Nature and natural resources.
Eastern Croatia, known as Slavonia, is home to the country's best farmland.
It mainly grows wheat and corn, but also Slavonian oak.
The oak wood is used to make wine barrels, which are sold to other countries.
Croatia has a long coastal strip facing the Mediterranean Sea.
This is the beautiful Dalmatia with its thousands of archipelago islands.
Dalmatia is the home of the black-spotted Dalmatian dog breed.
In the northern part, called Istria, the landscape is more hilly.
Along the coast are popular tourist resorts such as Pula, Rovinj, Poreč and Umag.
Slovenia. Important cities and places.
Slovenia is a rich country, located in the south-eastern corner of the Alps mountain range.
Slovenia used to be part of the former Yugoslavia.
Slovenia declared its independence in 1991.
The capital Ljubljana is located in the middle of Slovenia.
Today, a lot of furniture, fabrics and machinery are produced in Ljubljana.
The large cities of Maribor and Kranj have several shoe and textile industries.
Slovenia has a small stretch of coastline facing the Mediterranean Sea.
It is home to the popular tourist resorts of Portorož, Koper and Piran.
In the Karst area is the small town of Lipica.
This is where the white Lipizzaner horses come from.
These are the horses used at the famous Spanish Riding School in Vienna, Austria.
The Postojna Caves. Nature and natural resources.
Slovenia is a mountainous country with a lot of forest.
To the east there is fertile arable land.
In the Karst area there are many underground passages and mighty caves.
The impressive Postojna Caves have a 17 km long cave system.
The caves were created by the underground river Pivka,
which has been burrowing underground for millions of years.