Macedonia. Important cities and places.
Macedonia is a small mountainous country north of Greece.
The country became independent in 1991 after being part of Yugoslavia.
The great river Vardar flows through Macedonia.
The capital Skopje is located on the river in the north of the country.
The city was completely destroyed by an earthquake in 1963.
Today the city of Skopje is rebuilt.
It is a modern city with several important industries.
It includes textile and food manufacturing.
Outside the city there are large tobacco farms.
Lake Ohrid is one of the oldest and deepest lakes in Europe.
It is almost 300 meters deep. Lake Ohrid is now a World Heritage Site.
This means that there is nature here that needs to be preserved and protected for the future.
Sunflower cultivation in Macedonia. Nature and natural resources.
Macedonia is a mountainous country with many mountain lakes with clear water.
The largest lakes are in the southwest and are called Ohrid and Prespa.
Lake Prespa is home to both pelicans and herons.
Macedonia's mountains are home to lynx, brown bears and chamois, a type of mountain goat.
In southern Macedonia, there are large crops of tobacco, corn, cotton and sunflowers.
Key exports include tobacco, cheese and wine.
Montenegro. Important cities and places.
Montenegro is a completely new country in Europe.
The country used to be part of Serbia.
In 2006, Montenegro gained independence after the people of the country voted on how they wanted it.
The capital of the country is Podgorica.
It is home to the country's parliament and universities.
The city has a warm climate and is one of the hottest cities in Europe during the summer.
Bar is Montenegro's main port city.
Budva is the largest tourist resort in the country with its long sandy beaches.
Budva is actually the city in the world with the highest ratio of millionaires to population.
The name Montenegro comes from an Italian word meaning the Black Mountain.
Bathing beach in Montenegro. Nature and natural resources.
Montenegro is a small mountainous country.
There are vast forests and deep valleys where rivers flow.
The climate in Montenegro is warm and pleasant.
Olive trees and orange trees grow in the valleys.
Along the Mediterranean coast there are many small towns that make their living from fishing.
There are also plenty of beautiful beaches on the coast, 
attracting more and more tourists to Montenegro.