Albania. Important cities and places.
Albania is one of the poorest countries in Europe.
For many years the country was completely isolated from the outside world.
There were no contacts at all with other countries.
No tourists were allowed to enter the country either.
At that time, Albania was ruled by a dictator called Enver Hoxha.
In recent years, the people of Albania have become better off.
But many young people have moved abroad to find work in other countries.
Therefore, Albania has become a country where the population is constantly decreasing.
The capital of Albania is Tirana. It is home to the country's only airport.
In Tirana is the famous Et'hem Bey Mosque.
The city of Durräs is the second largest city in Albania.
A beautiful Roman amphitheater has been preserved in the city.
Shkodër is the largest city in northern Albania.
There is a large fortress from which you have a good view of the city.
Et'hem Bey Mosque in Tirana. Nature and natural resources.
Albania is a country mostly made up of mountains and forests.
The highest peak Korab is 2,764 meters high.
The Drini River flows down from the mountain.
Albania's largest lake is Lake Shkodar. It is located on the border with Montenegro.
Up in the mountains live rare animals such as jackals and vultures.
The mountains contain metals such as chromium and copper, but also oil.
On the coast there is fertile soil.
It grows corn, tobacco, olives and oranges.
Kosovo. Important cities and places.
Kosovo is one of Europe's newer countries.
Previously, Kosovo was part of the country of Serbia.
In 2008, Kosovo declared its independence.
Many countries have recognized Kosovo as a separate country.
But Serbia still considers Kosovo a Serbian territory.
Kosovo is home to many different ethnic groups.
The largest group is Kosovo Albanians.
But there are also Serbs, Turks and Roma.
The capital of Kosovo is Pristina.
The city includes the government building, 
a university and an international airport.
Prizren and Ferizaj are the names of other major cities in Kosovo.
The name Kosovo actually means blackbird.
The name Kosovo means blackbird. Nature and natural resources.
Kosovo is a predominantly mountainous country.
Large areas are covered by forest.
But there is also plenty of fertile soil.
Unfortunately, agriculture is outdated and undeveloped.
This is mainly due to the fact that Kosovo is a poor country.
The bedrock contains one of Europe's largest deposits of lead, zinc and nickel.
Kosovo also has great potential to develop the country's hydropower.