Writing

Plan your writing - decide what is important 

Soon you will have to write a comparative factual text. 
To write a comparative factual text based on two texts, you need to gather facts.

1. read the texts on Hinduism and Buddhism. 
Start by getting an idea of the content of the texts by reading and comparing headlines, looking at pictures and reading captions.

2. Underline the facts you think are important in both texts.

Both texts talk about life after death.
Then I can compare the different views!

Hinduism

Hinduism originated in India and is the oldest of all world religions. 

It has no founder or other important person, but the religion is made up of many different teachings and traditions. 
Today, Hinduism is the third largest world religion with over one billion practitioners. 
The vast majority of these live in India.

In many Hindu homes, there is a small altar with an image of a god.
This is where you can light incense and offer flowers and some food to the god or gods.
This altar is used to worship the god Ganesha.

Brahman is the divine power 
In Hinduism, it is believed that there is a divine power, Brahman. 
It is everywhere and in all living things. 
No one can imagine what Brahman looks like, but it can manifest itself in different ways in different gods and goddesses. 
Some of the main gods that Hindus pray and sacrifice to are Vishnu, Shiva, Lakshmi, Rama and Ganesha.

Everything goes in an eternal cycle

The Hindu view of life is that there is no beginning or end. 
All living things are created, destroyed and resurrected in an eternal cycle called samsara. 
The only thing that remains is the soul, which moves on. 
This means that, for example, you can be reborn as an animal in the next life. 
Because Hindus believe that all living things are sacred, many of them are vegetarians.

Liberation from rebirth

In Hinduism, the aim is to get out of samsara and be liberated from rebirth. 
One way to achieve this liberation is to accumulate good karma in life, for example by following the rules of life. 
This liberation can also be achieved by following various paths, including the Path of Love or the Path of Knowledge.

Festivals
Hinduism celebrates many festivals. Some festivals are celebrated at home,
others in temples dedicated to a particular god or goddess.

Buddhism

Buddhism is one of the five world religions and has its origins in India and Hinduism.
Buddhism was founded around 2500 years ago by a man called Siddhartha Gautama. 
Today, most Buddhists live in South-East Asia, in China and Japan, in Sri Lanka and in Tibet.

The Buddha

The founder of Buddhism, Siddhartha Gautama, belonged to a wealthy Hindu family living in India in the 5th century BC. 
Siddhartha grew tired of being rich and left his family to seek knowledge about life. 
He studied Hindu scriptures, learned yoga, and lived an ascetic life.
Through meditation, he eventually found his goal and became a buddha, an enlightened one. 
The goal he achieved was to have no desire for anything in life.

Nirvana

The Buddha saw that life can be a long suffering and found a way to free himself from this suffering and become enlightened. 
The way to this is via the Eightfold Path, which has also been called the Golden Mean. 
When you escape rebirth, you reach a state called nirvana.

No god and no divine power 

According to Frekbe, there is no god who created the world. 
Divine powers cannot fully help us get out of the wheel of rebirths either. 
The Buddha therefore believed that man must instead help himself. 
Since there is no reliance on a god, there is no belief in sacrifices or other rituals to achieve nirvana. 
Today, Buddhism is divided into two major movements.
These are Theravada and Mahayana. 
They have different views on who can reach nirvana but also different views on the role of Buddha.

Festivals and rituals

Buddhism has many festivals and rites, but they vary from one Buddhist country to another. 
Apart from some major festivals that all Buddhists celebrate, there are no general rules about when to visit the temple.

Some Buddhists have a small altar at home where they can light candles or incense and offer food and flowers.
Small altars and spirit houses can also be found on street corners and parks like this spirit house in Thailand.