The structure of a debate article

a debate article is an argumentative text, which is structured in a particular way.

1.Read the debate article. 
It is a response to the opinion piece by feline scientist Katarina Dahlbom that you have read and worked on together in class.

2. What is the structure of the debate article?
Mark out the parts of the article with numbers.

Put a one in front of the title.
Put a two in front of the introduction.
Put a three in front of the introduction.
Put a four in front of the in-depth part.
Put a five in front of the conclusion.

The introduction is not written by the contributor but by a person who works at the newspaper.

Not right to keep animals in cages 

In yesterday's Aftonpressen, veterinarian and feline researcher Katarina Dahlbom took aim at organizations that oppose the right of zoos to keep animals in cages. 
There is no such right, according to the association Animals in their rightful place, which wants all zoos to be banned.

Imagine spending your whole life in an area no bigger than a classroom.
You would be there day in and day out, with no choice of when and if you would stay in the room. 
Every day people would come to look at you, point at you and take your picture.
Not much of a life, is it? But that's life for animals in a zoo. 
Isn't it time to seriously consider closing them down, once and for all?


First of all, it's hard to justify zoos keeping innocent animals in prison because the animals are not criminals. 
What crimes have the animals committed that the park feels it has the right to lock them up? 
And in a space that is nowhere near their natural habitat? 
The natural size of a wild wolf's territory is about 1,000 square kilometers, while the area for wolves in an approved zoo is around 3,000-5,000 square meters!

Many zoos defend themselves by saying they are saving endangered animals. 

While this is true, according to Born Free's surveys of UK zoos, only 5% of animals belonged to an endangered species. 

The other 95% of animals imprisoned in zoos were not endangered.

Secondly, we at Animals in Their Natural State believe that zoos have outplayed their role as educators.
A study by Professor Stephen Kellert of Yale University
shows that zoo visitors know less about animals than people with a general interest in nature. 
Professor Kellert highlights that zoo visitors also have as many prejudices about animals as non-zoo visitors. 
For example, 70 percent of zoo visitors think snakes are disgusting.
The majority of people who visit zoos do so primarily to be entertained because they see animals as things and not as living beings with rights. 
They want to see a cute animal, a funny animal or a dangerous animal.
Few zoo visitors think about who is providing the entertainment:
Innocent caged prisoners. We therefore believe that zoos should be banned and closed down.

Fredrik Tjurberg

CHAIRMAN OF THE ASSOCIATION ANIMALS IN THEIR NATURAL HABITAT

Amina Malik

SECRETARY OF THE ASSOCIATION ANIMALS IN THEIR RIGHTFUL NATURE
