Linguistic features

In debate article, there are typical linguistic features such as linking words(conjunctions),
reference markers and good expressions to present counterarguments.

1. What linguistic features do you find in the debate article on pages 52-53?
Mark with colored pencils in the text.
Circle linking words in yellow
Circle reference markers in green
Underline the expression that presents a counter-argument in blue.

linking words
Firstly 
For the second
Thirdly
Initially 
In conclusion
Finally
Finally

because of 
depending on
because
first
because
in addition

You can use connectors to introduce your argument or to explain and clarify your argument.

Unit markers 
wonders about, thinks, emphasizes, points out, considers, claims, asserts, explains, denies, discusses, shows, writes, states, highlights.

You use reference markers to show who said or thought something.

Good expression to present counter-arguments
Admittedly, ..., but ...
Many people think that ..., but ...
It is true that ..., but ...
The view is often heard that ..., but ...
On the one hand ..., but on the other hand ...

When presenting a counter-argument, mention the opponent's argument first and then tell why you disagree.

2. fill in the appropriate connective words in the blanks.
...... I think animals should live in freedom

......they must be bored when they are confined in zoos.

......wild animals are stressed by all the zoo visitors

......they don't usually socialize with humans in the wild.

......I would like to emphasize that locking up animals is crazy

...... tourists should be allowed to photograph and film the animals up close.

3. Circle the reference markers in the sentences.
Some people claim that wild animals in captivity feel miserable.
Many zoos are working to protect endangered animals, according to advocates of zoo conservation.
In the debate article “Animals and entertainment go together”, the author writes that caged animals are there to entertain tourists.

4. Respond to the arguments with your own counter-arguments.

Opponent's argument: You can learn a lot about wild animals in zoos.

Counterargument: On the one hand, you can learn a lot about wild animals when you visit zoos, 
but on the other hand, you learn more about animals when you watch nature programs on TV.

Opponent's argument: In zoos we save animals from extinction.

Counterargument:

Opponent's argument: In modern zoos, animals have plenty of room to roam.

Counterargument: