P 006

Read and reflect

Read the chapter “Tarantella” from Knocked Romeo by Johan Rundberg.
Read with pen in hand. Think about and underline things that stick out to you.
These may be things you think are important or that you do not understand.

TARANTELLA

Actually, it all started last summer. That's when I became known as the King of the Wreath - the best skater in the country.
I got autographs and free sodas at the store. 
I was even invited to appear on TV!
But when it was revealed that I couldn't skate at all, many people thought I was a fraud. 
No one wanted to call me the King of the Wreath anymore. 
And soon most people forgot that I was a celebrity. 
When fall came, even the kindergarten kids didn't want my autograph and I had to pay for my soda myself. 
My life was simply back to normal. 
With one exception. A wonderful, amazing exception that was spelled B-E-A-T-A. 
Me, Movits Lind 11 years and ten months, were together! 
Everyone who skates knows who Beata is, she's a real star. 
And best of all: she didn't care that I could barely stand on a board. 
She liked me anyway.

There wasn't really much difference between being together and not being together. 
I hung out less with my best friend Ruben and more with Beata (although Ruben was usually there anyway). 
The big difference is that you kiss. 

P 007

Before I had kissed a girl, I didn't understand what the big deal was. 
I thought kissing and making out mostly seemed like a waste of time, which could be spent on more important things. 
After my first kiss, I thought the exact opposite. 
Making out is the best thing ever, you never get tired of it! 
Sure, the lips might go numb after a few hours, but it never gets boring.

But on this particular day, we did not kiss. 
I sat on Beata's bed and leafed through “888 funny jokes”. 
The title felt wrong, the book should really be called “888 hilarious jokes”, but some were so bad that they were actually good.
Beata and I are quite similar, if we're in the right mood, a really bad joke can make us collapse on the floor in a fit of laughter.

Listen to this one, I said. “Once upon a time there were two bakers and a batter.”

Stop it, said Beata irritably. I can't laugh now, it won't be straight.

Beata was painting her wall. The thunderbolt she had had there before was gone. 
Now she wanted a tarantula instead. 
A big, hairy, hideous spider with long legs. 
If you get bitten by a tarantula, you die.
Or rather: first you suffer terrible pain - then you die. 
Need I say that I hate spiders? 

P 008

I once read in the newspaper about some spiders that had been accidentally trapped in a container in South America. 
The container was loaded onto a boat that went all the way across the Atlantic, towards Sweden. 
For weeks, the spiders were trapped in the dark, getting angrier and angrier. 
When the boat arrived in Malmö, the spiders were furious! 
As soon as the container was opened, they jumped out and started stabbing the poor dockworkers, putting them in hospital. 
I wished Beata would paint some other animal on her wall. 
Like a guinea pig, for example. Guinea pigs are also hairy and can bite, but are much nicer than spiders. 
Although if it was my wall, I would have painted Saturn - my favorite planet.

Shall we go then? Beata said and put down the paintbrush.
I closed the joke book and we went into the kitchen. 
Beata rummaged around in a drawer until she found a cake server.
“This will work,” she said.
While I was putting on my shoes, Beata took the ice cream pack out of the freezer. 
We went out through the gate and up the stairs to Liljeholmsbron. 
Although it was Sunday, a long line of cars stretched towards Södermalm, the exhaust fumes mixed with the cool autumn air. 
Beata said nothing, she carried the glass packet pressed tightly against her jacket. 
At the bridge we turned towards Tantolunden. 
In the summer the park was packed every day. Now it was almost empty.

P 009

Some old men and women sat on a bench drinking beer. 
A guy in a hoodie walked his dog and a baby waddled around with his tired dad in tow. 
We walked past the closed miniature golf course, and up towards the playground. 
There was a secluded spot, surrounded by tall trees. Beata stopped in front of a large oak tree.

Here, she said briefly.

She took the spade out of her pocket, knelt down and started digging with determination. 
The ground was getting hard, and it was slow going. 
But eventually there was a pit.

Beata opened the lid of the glass package. Inside was Peggy, her rat. 
Peggy had died several months earlier, but the funeral had not taken place. 
Now it was time.

This was your favorite place, Beata said, stroking Peggy's back. 
You'll never feel alone here.


There were small holes here and there between the roots of the oak. 
I realized that they were entrances to the park rats' tunnels.
Beata had told me that the rats came out at night.
They ate things that people left behind when they had a picnic. 
On warm summer evenings, the park was full of garbage that no one had taken care of. 

P 010

If there was a heaven for rats, it was Tantolunden.

I patted Peggy's cold fur, before Beata closed the lid and carefully lifted the package into the pit. 
We helped each other to shovel back the earth. 
Beata placed a small stone on top of the grave, an ordinary smooth gray stone with a “P” painted on it. 
Then she stood up and stood silently for a while.
I didn't really know what to do, so I just put my arm around Beata's shoulders. 
After a while it started to drizzle.

Are you hungry? I asked. “We can get a hamburger in Liljeholmen.

I don't know, said Beata.


Or a coffee if you prefer,” I continued.
We can make chocolate balls at my place.

'Well, I don't know if I want to be together,' Beata said.

She said it quietly, but I heard every word crystal clear. 
My throat constricted, and it suddenly became difficult to breathe. 
As if the air itself was thick and viscous.

Either you want to or you don't, I said.

My voice sounded completely alien, as if it belonged to someone else.

Beata stood silently with her head turned away. 
It felt strange, I still had my arm around her shoulders.

I wished she would at least watch. 
Finally she said: I don't want to.
She gave me a quick glance. Her eyes were shiny and sad.
Then she turned and walked all the way back to the walkway, without looking back.
I stood there by the grave and felt the raindrops finding their way inside my collar.