Know why some animals change color depending on the season and be able to give examples of some animals that do.
The forest hare. When winter comes, it is important not to be seen in the white snow.
The arctic fox. In order to sneak up on the prey without being detected, it is good to be white as snow.
Draw a food chain that can be found in the mountains.
The lemming eats everything from mosses to grass .
Both the mountain fox and the mountain owl get the nutrition in the lemming's meat when they eat a lemming.
Know why the peaks of the Alps are higher than the Swedish mountain peaks.
This is because our mountains are much older than the Alps.
But they have been worn down by being covered by heavy ice sheets.
The mountains in the Alps have not had time to wear down as much as the Swedish mountains.
Sort the species according to where you can find them, in the mountains or in the Alps.
Bearded vulture, marmot, golden plover, arctic fox, Kalmia procumbens, barn owl, edelweiss, cloudberry.
Sweden: golden plover, arctic fox, barn owl, Kalmia procumbens,cloudberry.
Alps：Bearded vulture，marmot，edelweiss.
Give three examples of how humans can affect the nature of the mountains.
there are many buildings in the mountains.
More and more hotels, slalom runs, ski lifts and roads are being built.
In several places in the Alps, large parts of the old forests have been cut down.
Know why we have nature reserves and national parks.
a nature reserve is to protect nature from clear-cutting and development.
Describe conifer forest close to mountains, mountain birch forest, kalfjäll (bare mountain?) and be able to briefly describe species and animals that thrive in each environment.
Coniferous forest near the mountains. The tall firs of the forest can become very old. moose.
Mountain birch forest:The strong wind and the thin soil layer mean that the mountain birches are short, strong and gnarled. Willow grouse. The lemming, mountain fox and the mountain owl.
bare mountain (?) . It is open and rocky on the mountain top.Low plants and various kinds of lichens.  european golden plover.
Concept of being able. Plant zone, adaptation, food chain, nature reserve and exploit.
plant zone: areas based on the conditions of the plants.
adaptation: characteristic or behavior that enables an animal or plant to cope in its habitat.
food chain: shows who eats what in nature.
nature reserve, national park: areas with special rules to protect nature.
exploit: when man changes a natural area for tourism or to build roads and cities.