Confirmation
The word confirmation means to affirm, to say yes to, and what you affirm in confirmation is your own baptism.
Those who were baptized as small babies could not decide on the baptism themselves, but as a youth, one can confirm, agree that it was the right thing to do during confirmation.
Christian boys and girls are usually confirmed when they are around 13–14 years old.
They then take a confirmation course and learn more about the Christian faith and how a Christian should live.
Those who are not baptized but still want to take a confirmation course can do so.
Then he or she will be baptized during the course.
Wedding
Those who fall in love and find someone to live together with often choose to marry in the church.
Many think getting married in a church is both beautiful and solemn.
When a couple marries, it is called a wedding or ceremony.
The couple then enters into marriage.
The idea of the ceremony in the church is that God will bless the couple getting married.
People pray that God will help make the marriage good.
The priest reads from the Bible and says that now you are not just two people but also a couple united in a special way, bound to each other by love.
Funeral
When a Christian person dies, the body is placed in a wooden coffin.
Then a ceremony called a funeral is held.
A funeral can take place in a church or in a special funeral chapel.
The priest usually begins by saying: We are gathered here to say goodbye.
Then the priest gives a speech about the deceased, but also about the Christian belief that after death, one comes to God.
Then it is common for everyone at the funeral to walk around the coffin, stop in front of it, place a flower on the coffin, and say goodbye.
When the ceremony is over, the deceased is placed in a grave in the ground.
This can be done in two ways.
Either the whole coffin is lowered into the grave; this is called burial.
Or the body is first taken out and placed on a pyre to cremate.
What remains, the ashes, is placed in a small urn that is then buried in the ground.
It also happens that the ashes are allowed to spread freely over an area, for example in a memorial grove, in the mountains or over the sea.
Glossary
Wedding is the ceremony when one gets married.
A funeral chapel is a smaller church used only for funerals.
Cremation means burning a body so it becomes only ashes.
Memorial groves are often located on a wooded slope.