The Temple in Uppsala
Near the city that is today called Uppsala, there was a temple 1,000 years ago that was very famous among the people in the Nordics.
There, people prayed and offered sacrifices to the Aesir gods.
Near the temple grew a large tree meant to remind people of the world tree Yggdrasil.
There are stories about how people even sacrificed humans at this temple.
The dead humans were then hung up in the tree.
The Names of the Days
Several of our weekdays have names that come from this time.
Sunday is the day of the sun.
Monday is the day of the moon.
Tuesday is the god Tyr's day.
Wednesday is the god Odin's day.
Thursday is the god Thor's day.
Friday is the god Freyja's day.
Saturday comes from the word 'löga', which means to wash oneself.
In the past, people washed themselves and their clothes once a week, and that day was named Saturday.
Idun and the Apples
Idun was the goddess of youth.
She had special apples that gave eternal youth.
The gods ate Idun's apples and therefore never aged.
Tjatse was a wicked giant.
He really wanted to get hold of Idun's apples, and he forced the god Loki to help him.
Loki lured Idun into the forest where Tjatse was waiting.
The giant wore a special eagle suit that allowed him to fly.
He captured Idun and her apples and then flew away to his home.
When the other Aesir gods discovered that Idun was gone, they became afraid.
They noticed how they suddenly aged and got gray hair and beards.
When they learned that it was Loki who had helped the giant to capture Idun, they forced Loki to save her.
Loki borrowed a bird suit from the goddess Freya and then flew to Tjatse's home.
The giant was out fishing, so Loki could enter the giant's place without being detected.
There he transformed Idun and the apples into a nut.
He then took the nut in his beak and began to fly home.
When Tjatse noticed that Idun was gone, he put on his eagle suit and flew after.
He soon caught up with Loki and Idun.
The Aesir gods waiting for Loki now saw two birds in the sky.
They understood that it was the giant chasing Loki.
They then lit a big fire just as Loki had flown over.
The fire caused Tjatse's eagle suit to burn up, and the giant crashed to the ground and died.
Idun was back, and the gods could eat her apples again.
They became young again, and their gray hair disappeared.