What is faith?
When someone says "I believe in you", they are saying that they trust that person.
The one who says: "I believe in God", therefore trusts in God and believes that God exists.
The person who believes in God is called a believer.
It is not visible on the outside of a person what he or she believes in.
And not everyone believes in God or gods.
Everyone chooses for themselves whether or not they want to believe.
Many children do as their parents and follow their way of believing or not believing.
It is usually later in life that one decides what they want for themselves.
Worldview
Worldview is a good word to know.
To view means to see.
So worldviews are a way to look at the world and humans.
It can be thoughts about how we humans should be towards each other and about what is right and wrong.
It can be thoughts about how the earth came to be or about what happens after death.
Being religious
A believing person can also be called religious.
Being religious means that one is tied to a religion.
It can be any religion.
One who belongs to a religion follows the traditions and holidays that pertain to that religion.
A tradition is the common habits that a group or a family has, things that are done in the same way every time.
In your family, there are certainly traditions, such as how you celebrate birthdays and what food you eat at certain holidays.
You learn it and then pass it on to your own children when you grow up.
Then it becomes a tradition.
Traditions mean a lot for the cohesion of the group.
Festivals are important traditions in all religions.
A festival is when people meet to celebrate something special.
Christmas is an example of a festival.
- You can find more words in the glossary on page 152.
A believer is called someone who believes in God.
Religious means being tied to a religion and following the traditions and festivals that pertain to that religion.
Tradition is the common habits that a group or family has.
A festival is when people gather to celebrate something special.