The Temple Dedication Feast (Chanukah)
When? In November or December.
Why? To commemorate an event approximately 2200 years ago.
At that time, there was a temple in Jerusalem, which was very important to the Jews.
The temple was occupied by the Greeks, who were a powerful people at the time.
After some time, the Jews succeeded in retaking the temple from the Greeks.
Before using the temple again, they rededicated it.
This is what gave the holiday its name - the Temple Dedication Feast.
Inside the temple, a lamp was always supposed to be lit.
At that time, oil was used in the lamps.
When the Jews took back the temple from the Greeks, the oil was almost out.
It took eight days to produce new oil.
According to the story, God made the lamp burn for eight days even though there was only enough oil for one day.
During that time, the Jews managed to produce new oil.
Therefore, the Temple Dedication Feast is celebrated for eight days.
How? Every evening for eight days, the family gathers to light a candle.
A special candlestick with eight candles is used.
On the first evening one candle is lit, on the second evening two, and on the last evening all eight candles are lit.
During this holiday, it is common for the children in the family to receive gifts.
Oil is important during the holiday.
Therefore, Jews often eat food prepared in oil.
Potato pancakes are an example of food that is prepared by frying in oil.
The Most Important Place for the Jews
The temple in Jerusalem was for a very long time the most important place for the Jews.
In this temple, people prayed to God.
Many times, enemies of the Jews tried to take over the temple just like the Greeks did.
About 2000 years ago, the temple was destroyed by the Romans.
The only thing left was part of a wall.
Today, Jews call this wall the Western Wall.
In Judaism, the Western Wall is a very important place, and many Jews visit it every year to pray to God.
Many Jews travel to Jerusalem to pray at the Western Wall.
The menorah used during Hanukkah has eight lights.
In the middle, you see a ninth light, and it's called the servant.
It is used to light the other eight candles.
A temple is a religious building where people pray to God.
To occupy is to take over a country or a building. Violence is often used.
To inaugurate is something you sometimes do with things before you start using them.
For example, you can inaugurate a house.