The Muslim calendar
The Muslim year is 11 days shorter than the Christian year.
This means that the holidays are celebrated a little earlier each year.
If a holiday is celebrated in December one year, it will be celebrated 11 days earlier the next year and then 11 days earlier the year after.
After a few years, the holiday will be celebrated in the fall and after a few more years in the summer.
In this way, the Muslim holidays move all the time.
Muslim holidays
Within Islam, there are two major holidays that most Muslims celebrate and look forward to.
These are both the Id holidays.
The holidays should be celebrated with family and friends.
It is also important to share and think of those who are not so well-off.
The Breaking Fast Festival (Id al-Fitr)
When? Directly after Ramadan, the fasting month.
Why? During Ramadan, Muslims fast every day and when the month is over, Muslims celebrate that they are allowed to eat during the day again.
They celebrate breaking the fast.
How? The Breaking Fast Festival is celebrated for three days.
On the first day, one begins by eating something because fasting is no longer necessary.
Many Muslims then take a bath.
It is common to go to the mosque in the morning to pray.
It is good to be clean to show respect for God.
Later in the day, people visit friends and family.
They wish everyone well and have a festive meal together.
It is important to show family and friends that one cares about them.
The children usually receive gifts and new clothes.
It is said that Muhammad himself wore new clothes when he celebrated the Breaking Fast Festival.
Since many Muslims want to do just as Muhammad did, they dress nicely during this holiday.
During the Breaking Fast Festival, Muslims also give money to the poor or to others in need.
It is always important to think of those who are less fortunate, but during this holiday, it is especially important.
During the Id holidays, it is common for children to receive gifts, sometimes also money or candy.
People give gifts to show that they are happy to share.
Fasting is to not eat or drink.