Our communities



The eggs in Lövsta's largest grocery store come from a farm just outside town. 



The fish counter sells crayfish caught in China. 



And in the fruit section is a mountain of cheap bananas from Nicaragua.



The grocery store is just one of the many examples that show how much we depend on cooperation with people both near and far.



Civics is about people meeting people, but not just about happy togetherness. 



Therefore, you will learn about cooperation and conflict, justice and injustice, love and hate.



The word 'community' originally means cohesion. 



In English, society is called 'community'.



Community also means togetherness.



Local communities



A community is a place where people live close together.



It can be a small village, a town with a few hundred inhabitants,



or a larger city. Ida's Lövsta is an urban area with 16 000 inhabitants.



It has shops, schools, factories, water towers and much more that the people of Lövsta benefit from.



Do you want to change the world?



In this book, we will learn more about the laws and rules that apply in our communities, 



how we can solve problems together and who is in charge in Sweden.



Anyone who learns the rules of the game in society can help to influence things that work badly or are unfair.



On this spread you can see the playing field: our different societies. 



Some issues are easiest to solve in our local community, while others apply to the whole of Sweden. 



The biggest societal issues must be solved by the whole world together.



Nations



Ida is also a citizen of the country Sweden. 



Another word for country is nation or state.



We have a lot in common in our country. 



All Swedes learn about the same things in school. 



We speak the same language and pay with the same kind of money. 



We have a common flag and the same laws apply from Skåne to Lapland.



The world - the global community



Ida and all the other 7 billion people on earth are part of the global community or world community.



We buy food and other goods from countries all over the world.



But it's not just trade that connects us. 



The environment is an example of a global issue. 



We need to work together to save our oceans and air from toxic emissions.



What communities are you part of? What do you have in common with the people in your communities?



New York is one of the largest communities in the world. 



The city has over 8 million inhabitants. 



Liberia is one of the poorest countries in the world.



Here, 4 out of 5 people are forced to live on less than $10 a day.



China has the largest population in the world. 



Over 1.3 billion people live here.



Naurv is one of the world's smallest nations. 



It has just 14,000 inhabitants. 