The laws



Politicians in Parliament make our laws. 



These laws apply everywhere in society: at home, at school and at work. 



If you don't follow the laws, you risk being caught by the police, taken to court and punished. 



It is important that laws are fair, because the consequences of breaking them can be so serious. 



The people can influence the laws by electing wise politicians.



The lawyers and the law book



There are over a thousand laws in Sweden. Each law contains many different provisions. 



To keep track of all the provisions, politicians need the help of lawyers. 



Lawyers are experts in laws and legislation.



All the laws in force are collected in the Swedish statute book. 



The law book often has to be rewritten, as new laws are constantly being added and old ones disappear. 



Nowadays, all the laws are also collected on the internet, on the Parliament's website.



Children's laws 



There are many laws that protect children from unfair treatment.



IN THE FAMILY



Hitting and threatening children is forbidden. 



All children have the right to care, security and a good upbringing.



A child should normally have the right to see both parents, 



even if the parents cannot agree.



At school



Pupils should be able to influence teaching.



It is forbidden to punish the whole class if a pupil has done something wrong. 



Teachers should not give extra homework to everyone just because some have been sloppy.



All children have the right to go to school. 



If the teacher thinks a particular pupil is too rowdy, 



the municipality must arrange special lessons for that pupil.



Schools are responsible for ensuring that no one is bullied.



Children have the right to play and rest! Schools should therefore not hand out homework over the weekend.



The school premises should be clean enough to work in. 



Rooms should be large enough, clean and bright.



If you are being treated unfairly and don't know who to talk to 



you can call the Children's Rights in Society (BRIS): 116111, (www.bris.se). 



You can also contact Jourhavande kompis: 020-22 24 44 (www.jourhavandekompis.se).



There are adults there who can give you good advice. 



You do not need to tell them who you are or where you live when you call.
