Finding structure and key facts

Comparative factual texts aim to show similarities and differences.
Now you will compare three festivals in the three religions Judaism, Christianity and Islam.

1. Read the text Three important festivals in Judaism, Christianity and Islam.

2. Read and underline the headings and subheadings in orange.

3. Read and circle the introduction in yellow.

4. Circle pictures and captions in purple.

5. Underline important facts about Hanukkah in blue. 

6. underline important facts about Christmas in red 

7. underline important facts about Eid al-Fitr in green.


Three important festivals in Judaism, Christianity and Islam

What is a religious holiday and how do holidays differ from each other in different religions?
A religious holiday is a celebration that takes place over one or more days and originates from the observance of something related to one's religion.

The way festivals have been celebrated has changed throughout history and how they are celebrated today depends very much on the country or culture you are in. 

However, many traditions have been preserved over the years. 

Let's compare three major festivals in the religions of Judaism, Christianity and Islam. 

Children celebrating Eid in a family in Malaysia. The family socializes, gives each other presents and eats good food and sweets.

Joy and togetherness

One of the most important holidays in Judaism is Hanukkah. 
It is a joyous holiday, just like Christmas for Christians and Eid al-Fitr for Muslims. 
All three festivals are celebrated by bringing together family and friends. 
Food special to the holiday is eaten and children are often given presents. 
When they meet, they wish each other a happy Hanukkah, Merry Christmas or blessed Eid.


Celebrated for different reasons

The three festivals have different reasons for being celebrated.
Jews celebrate the rededication of the Temple in Jerusalem more than 2000 years ago, while Christians celebrate the birth of Jesus in the town of Bethlehem. 
Muslims celebrate the end of the long fasting month of Ramadan.

Celebrated at different times of the year
Another difference is the timing of the three festivals throughout the year.
Unlike Christmas, which always falls on 24-25 December, Hanukkah falls on a different date each year, on the new moon in November-December.

Eid al-Fitr, in turn, begins at sunrise after the sighting of the new moon on the first day of the month following Ramadan.
The timing of this varies from country to country and between different communities.

The holidays have a lot in common
To sum up, the three holidays have a lot in common. 
They are celebrated with joy and gratitude. 
People meet loved ones, eat food together and give presents. 
What distinguishes the holidays is why and when they are celebrated.

For families celebrating Christmas in Sweden, it is often a person dressed as Santa Claus who brings presents to the children.

S