
Now it's your turn to write - introduction and conclusion

Tips on how to start:
With a question
With a statement

Tips on endings:
Finally
At the end :
In conclusion
In conclusion

You'll never guess how many similarities there are between...

In conclusion, there are many more similarities than differences between...

In a comparative text, it is important to start by introducing the things or phenomena you are comparing. 
At the end, write a summary of what you have found in your comparison. 

1. How do you want to start your comparative text? Choose from the tips and then fill in an introductory sentence in the Comparison Builder on page 39.

2. How do you want to end your comparative factual text? Choose from the tips and then fill in a beginning of ending in the Comparison Burger.

3. tell a peer how you intend to write, let the peer ask questions if anything is unclear

4. Write your text on a computer or by hand. 
Use the list of comparison words to describe the similarities and differences between Hinduism and Buddhism to add variety to your text. 
Use the Comparison Builder and the checklist as you write your text.

5. Work with a peer and give feedback on each other's texts based on the objectives on page 31.
Revise and correct!

6. Check the assessment scale based on how you think you have achieved the objectives.

Comparison words

similarities:

Also

also

both/all

as well as

in the same way as

just as

in the same way as

differences:

but

although

however

while

on the other hand

compared to

even though

while on the other hand

however

unlike

in turn


Checklist
I have included:
introduction and conclusion
facts describing similarities and differences
heading and subheadings
paragraph structure
comparison words



Objective - Writing

I can: Started. Achieved. Developed.  Well developed

gather important facts about two phenomena/things,
sort facts according to similarities and differences,
write a comparative factual text with an introduction, similarities, differences and a summary conclusion,
use comparison words to signal similarities and differences,
write and spell correctly.