on the mountaintop.
Kalfjället (bare mountain?) is the vegetation zone that is at the very top of the mountain peak.
Low plants and various kinds of lichens are the only plants that can survive there.
The flowers on Kalfjället (bare mountain?) often have hairy stems or fluffy leaves.
It becomes like a warm coat that protects against the cold.
The strong wind causes the plants to become short and grow creeping along the ground.
the creeping jungle grows only a few centimeters high, but its branches can stretch almost half a meter along the ground.
It can grow in windy places and can form thick mats.
The plants up here seek all the wind protection they can get.
You can find them behind a small hill, by a rock or in a pit.
Others grow close together like cushions, like the little pink flower silene acaulis (moss campion / cushion pink).
together they protect each other from the wind.
the pillow also acts as a sponge and retains water when it rains on the mountain.
Up here, lichens grow in different colors: on stones, rocks and on the ground.
Some lichens contain acid that can dissolve the stone's surface.
Then the lichen can more easily take hold and slowly, slowly grow further.
Such lichens can withstand all weather conditions, from drought to ice.
everywhere on Kalfjället (bare mountain?) you can hear a sad whistle.
It is the european golden plover, one of the mountains' most common birds.
It lays its eggs in a nest directly on the ground.
If you happen to get close, it whistles louder to warn the cubs.
glaciers.
on a glacier there is so much snow that it does not have time to melt away during the summer.
It is many years of snow that has been packed into glacier ice.
this thick ice moves and slowly wears down the rock below.
In Sweden, there are around 300 glaciers on the peaks of the mountains.
glaciers are constantly changing. they grow in cold climates and shrink when it's warmer.
golden plover. Where am I?
Here lichen grows like a carpet and no trees are visible.
the plants are quite tall and the birds hunt the insects.
it is buzzing with mosquitoes and clapping when you walk here.