The mountains then and now.
The Sami are an indigenous people who have lived in the mountains for a long time,
in the area that today is the northern parts of Sweden, Norway, Finland and Russia.
The area is called Sameland, Såpmi in Sami.
There the Sami lived by hunting and fishing.
They captured reindeer for milk, meat and skins. 
The reindeer were also used as draft animals and as decoys in hunting.
Even today, many Sámi work with reindeer husbandry and let the reindeer roam freely in the mountains.
The reindeer herders follow their migration and herd them together when it is time for marking and slaughter.
Reindeer farming today is modern with larger reindeer herds,
and all-terrain vehicles and helicopters are used to locate and collect them.
The reindeer graze in the mountains.
There used to be wild reindeer in Sweden.
Today, only domesticated reindeer owned by the Sami remain.
The reindeer copes well in the harsh climate of the mountains.
It has fur all over its body, even on its muzzle.
The fur is dense and the hairs are hollow and air-filled, which insulates against the cold.
Most of all, the reindeer eats lichens, which contain a lot of nutrients,
but it also grazes on rice plants, grasses, leaves, herbs and fungi.
In the summer, the reindeer go higher up the mountain to graze.
When winter comes, it seeks shelter in the forests further down.
To find lichens under the snow cover, it has to kick the snow away.
Different interests create conflicts.
There are many opinions about who has the right to the lands in the mountains.
They discuss how much forest should be cut down,
how many reindeer are allowed to graze and where they are allowed to roam.
Both reindeer grazing and forestry affect nature.
The nature of the mountains is important to everyone.
Today, reindeer herders, landowners and nature conservationists must work together.
The place of predators in the mountains is also much debated.
All our four big predators live there: bear, wolf, wolverine and loon(?).
But hunting and lack of food have made it tough for them to survive in the mountains.
In the past, the predators were hunted so hard that they dwindled in number.
Now the authorities decide when the animals can be hunted and how many animals can be shot.
The reduced number of lemmings has reduced the number of arctic foxes.
At the same time, there have been more red foxes.
They have the same food as the arctic foxes and can also kill them.
Therefore, the arctic fox is an endangered predator today.