The history of society



We all depend on other people to survive.



Therefore, it is natural for us to live together in societies. 



Throughout history, humans have become increasingly dependent on other people for their survival. 



Nomads



People who are not sedentary are called nomads.




From the family ...



In early societies, people lived together in small groups, 



made up of family and close relatives.



Together they provided food, warmth, protection from enemies and other necessities for survival. 



Each group was thus self-sufficient. But of course they lived much more simply than we do today!



... to the world!



Today, we depend on people all over the world to provide us with all the things we need and want.



No one can build cars, modern houses, computers and coffee makers on their own. 



Much of our food, clothing and other necessities are made abroad.



Would your family be able to be self-sufficient?



What are the things you have now that you would have to do without?



200 000 years ago 



Nomads on the move 



For hundreds of thousands of years, humans lived in small groups. 



They hunted, fished and gathered edible plants to survive. 



When food ran out in one place, the group moved to a new location.



6 000 years ago 



Humans become sedentary



When humans learned to cultivate the Earth and keep livestock, 



many people began to live as settled farmers. 



They settled in one place and built substantial houses. 



In the villages that grew up, farmers worked together to sow, harvest, fence and build roads.



By the year 1000 



New meetings in the cities World society



During the Middle Ages (1050-1521), some Swedish villages began to grow into towns. 



In the city, farmers from different villages met to do business with each other and with craftsmen and merchants. 



Sweden unites



The powerful King Gustav Vasa (1523-1560) united the villages and towns of Sweden into a single kingdom. 



Swedes were now subject to the same laws and paid taxes to the king.



Much of the money was used for the military.



Year 1500 Year 2000



During the 20th century, many Swedes moved from the countryside to the cities. 



There they took jobs in the factories. 



Inventions such as electricity, the radio, the car and the computer changed Swedes' lives.



The days of self-sufficiency were over.



