Sample description



Pages 56-63 and 66-68 in the social studies book + Presentation from the lessons on the CRC.



Presentation from the lessons can be found under files=>Law and law SAM in Teams



Concepts that we wrote in our SO booklet, see also below



Be able to explain what moral rules are, rules based on culture/customs and practical rules are and give examples of such rules.



Practical and moral laws.



The role of the police.



The Convention on the Rights of the Child, be able to explain what it is and give examples of the 4 fundamental rights of the Convention (See presentation in Teams)



Be able to explain what happens from the moment a crime is committed to the moment of sentencing (Concepts: police, custody, prosecutor, court).



Be able to explain the differences and similarities between punishment now and in the past and give examples of punishment both past and present.



Be able to give examples of juvenile delinquency and explain the concept of criminal responsibility



Preventing crime



Different ways to prevent crime before it happens, 



e.g. by providing information about burglar alarms, or patrolling the streets.



Detention center



A place where the police can temporarily lock up suspected criminals.



Prosecutor



The prosecutor decides whether a suspect should be acquitted outright, fined, or prosecuted in court.



Judge



Presides over the court.



Defendant



The suspected criminal is called the defendant during the trial.



Defense counsel



The person who helps the defendant from being unfairly convicted.



Witness



Person who knows something important about a suspected crime.



Punishment



Method of deterring and preventing crime. 



In Sweden, criminals can be punished by imprisonment or fines.



Probation



Help given to criminals to enable them to lead an honest life.



Probation



The convicted criminal is allowed to serve his sentence outside prison. 



A special probation officer ensures that the offender behaves.



Community service



Unpaid work that a convicted criminal can do outside prison.



Age of criminal responsibility



The age at which a person can be punished by society through fines or imprisonment. 



In Sweden the age is 15 years.



Morality



Our internal rules that tell us what is right and wrong to do to other people and animals.



The golden rule



Well-known moral rule “Treat other people the way you want them to treat you.



Empathy



The ability of humans to empathize with how others feel.



Culture



When a large group of people have the same habits and



traditions, they can be said to belong to the same culture.



Convention on the Rights of the Child



A legally binding international agreement created by UNICEF that clarifies and protects the rights of children in society, 



part of Swedish law since January 1, 2020.



Contains articles explaining children's rights based on the minimum requirements for a safe and healthy childhood.



Law



Society's most important regulations. Established by the Riksdag.



Lawyer



Expert in law and justice.



Good luck to you!