Short texts about Torsåker



In this task you will read some short texts about the events in Torsåker. Events that happened in the 17th century. 



But how do you know? 



And how can you be sure that what happened actually happened? Think about this when you read the texts.



The texts deal with some specific events:



- The wiseguys at Torsåker church



- The trials in Hammar



- The hike to Bålberget



The wise men at Torsåker church



During the witch trials, child witnesses were common. 



This meant that it was children who testified in the courts, 



because one of the most common accusations was that the witches kidnapped children and took them to Blåkulla.



At the time, many people believed that children could not lie. 



The Bible said that children who told very serious stories never lied. 



And so most people believed the children, even though many of them lied.



But not everyone lied. At least not of their own free will. Some had been threatened or coerced by another child, or an adult. 



In Torsåker, it was even the priest, Lars Hornaeus, who threatened the children so that they would testify against their mother. 



We know this because his grandson, Jöns Hornaeus, has written down everything that happened in Torsåker.



One day two boys from Nordingrå came to Torsåker. It was during the worst witch panic. 



Everyone was afraid of witches, and everyone was afraid of being labeled as witches. 



These boys claimed that they could see a mark on the witches that they had received from the devil when they had been in Blåkulla - the Witch Mark.



The boys were employed as “wise men” by Lars Hornaeus, and given the task of standing outside the church gate and pointing out those who bore the mark. 



They were called 'wise men' precisely because they showed who was a witch. 



For each person pointed out, they received a penny. So the more people accused, the higher the pay.



Wise men were found in many places. They were often orphan boys who roamed villages and parishes. 



Because many adults feared that their children would be kidnapped by witches, many invited the boys for food and shelter in exchange for pointing out local witches. 



On the other hand, if they didn't get any food or a place to sleep, that could be reason enough to point out someone ...



The trials in Hammar



Many people were singled out by the wise men. After they were singled out, there were a large number of accused to be tried. 



This began on October 15, 1676 at the inn in Hammar. 



According to the minutes of the hearings, there was an “Extra Ordinary Ransachning öfwer Trullwäsendett uthi Torgsåkers Giäldh”.



The accused came from three different parishes: Torsåker, Dahl and Ytterlännäs. 



From Torsåker, a little more than 20 were accused, and 20 of them were found guilty. 



18 were women and 2 were men. 70 people testified against them. 



Among them were their own children, spouses, sisters, brothers, friends and neighbors.



Many of those who were accused testified themselves. 



Brita, a married woman with several children, testified against 15 other women. 



She herself, and those she testified against, were sentenced to death.



51 of the witnesses were aged 18 or under. The youngest was 6 years old. 



Four of them were 7 years old. Five were 8 years old, and so on.



After trials and interrogations, the accused were kept in prison, but there was no one to guard them. 



The door was only bolted from the outside, so that when a parishioner passed by, he could lift the bolt and the prisoners could come out and stretch. 



No one escaped. They knew they could not hide. The whole parish was against them. 



No one had wanted to help them. 



In addition, they were imprisoned during the winter months, so if they had tried to hide outside it would have been very difficult to survive.



Instead, they would go back inside and someone else walking by would once again impose the rule.



Because so few parishioners cared about the accused, they received very little food. 



Not even relatives wanted to mix with those who might be witches.



The hike to Bålberget



Many people have wondered why so many people confessed, even though they were all innocent. 



One reason may have been that they did not think the punishment would be so severe. 



The sooner they confessed and the whole thing was over, the sooner they could go home to their farm and their family. 



But that didn't happen.



After several months in prison, all 71 accused were taken to the church in Torsåker. 



A sermon was preached there, and those who confessed their crimes could receive communion. 



It was at this point that many realized they were to be executed. Both family members and the accused. Everything was real.



When they realized what was coming, the accused screamed and shouted in panic. 



They shouted that there would be revenge on those who had caused their innocent deaths.



Then everyone started walking up towards the Pyre Mountain where the executions would take place. 



The parishioners held a spetsgård, which meant that the men held sharp points and spears in a circle around the accused so that no one could escape. 



On the way up the hill, some fainted knowing they would be executed. 



They were also exhausted and probably malnourished after being locked up for many months with hardly anything to eat. 



Those who fainted were dragged and carried up the mountain by their relatives.