Sample description The Age of Power HT24



The book “Koll på stormaktstiden” p 4-47 (see below page references)



List of concepts



Presentation from lessons (Schoolsoft and Teams)



Tasks and questions we worked with during the lessons



Mind-maps from revision lessons (Schoolsoft and Teams)



The timeline on the first page of the book “The Great Power Era”



Know the rulers in the correct order during the Great Power period and be able to explain who they were 



and give examples of what they did during their reign. 



Gustav II Adolf, Queen Kristina, Charles X Gustav, Charles XI and Charles XII.



Anniversaries of important events, e.g. the 30 Years' War 1618-1648, Gustav II Adolf's death anniversary 6/11 1632, 



8/12 1626 Queen Kristina is born, 5/2 1658 Train across the Great Belt, Peace of Roskilde 1658, 



Charles XI becomes king in 1660, Charles XII becomes king in 1697, Battle of Poltava in 1709, 



Charles XII is killed by a shot to the head outside the Norwegian fortress Fredriksten in 1718.



The different ways the regents governed Sweden. 



From the council (royal assurance, Gustav II Adolf, Kristina and Karl X) being involved in decision-making to autocracy 



(autocracy under Charles Xl and Charles Xll).



Be able to briefly explain the history of the Vasa ship, be able to name one reason why it sank (p.14-15)



The nobility in the age of empire, how their power increases and then decreases



(royal assurance, war, autocracy, reduction).



In the beginning, the nobility shared power with the king, during the Carolingian period it became autocracy. 



During the 30 Years' War, the nobility received spoils of war, castles, land and farms in return for their help in the war 



(from Gustav II Adolf and Queen Kristina). 



During the Carolingian period, Charles Xl took back 50% of all castles and farms (reduction and autocracy).



The difference between the 30 Years' War and the Nordic War.



The 30 Years' War was a religious war between Protestants 



and Catholics and Sweden wanted more power around the Baltic Sea (Gustav II Adolf and Queen Kristina). 



The army consisted of peasants and mercenaries. Gustav II Adolf died in the war.



The Nordic War was a defensive war. 



Denmark, Poland and Russia attacked Sweden (Charles XII). 



The army consisted of Carolinians (trained soldiers). Charles XII died in the war.



Give examples of scientists and historians who became famous and infamous during the Age of Power (pp. 30-31 and 34-35), 



for example Isaac Newton, Galileo Galilei and Magnus Gabriel.



That Sweden grew in size during the period of the Great Powers, e.g. at the Peace of Roskilde in 1658, Sweden was at its largest (Karl X Gustav). 



Be able to name countries that were part of Sweden's Baltic Sea Empire.



What a mill was and who worked there. (s 16-17)



A mill made cannons and was like a community. 



Walloons, who came from Wallonia in Belgium, were lured over to Sweden to work in the mills. 



They were skilled craftsmen (blacksmiths and iron workers).



How did 'ordinary' people (peasants, soldiers, women, burghers, beggars and children) live during the Great Powers? 



The living conditions of ordinary people (pp. 22-25)



That people had a hard time during the Great Power period. 



At the beginning, during the 30 Years' War, peasants had to go to war and their sons. 



Women had to work hard at home to look after the whole farm and household. 



Some women had to leave the farm to beg in the cities. 



There they were driven out and sometimes the children ended up in children's homes. 



Malnutrition was common and at the end of the Great War, the plague hit all the estates. 



Things got slightly better for the peasants at the end of the Great Power period when Sweden was divided into rotes. 



Each rote had a soldier in charge. 



Now they did not have to send their own sons to war, the so-called discharges.



Differences and similarities between men/women/children of the nobility and men/women/children of the other classes (p. 24 and 33-34). 



You should be able to give examples of similarities and differences and explain why this was so. 



Noblewomen were taught how to run a household, how to speak, read, speak French and dance. 



The noblemen had to learn war, history, mathematics, languages, Swedish, dancing, astronomy. 



The rich townspeople could send their children to school and children in orphanages were taught to read and write. 



Even the sons of Walloons were allowed to go to school. 



Some rural women and children could learn to read with the help of the priest or bell-ringer. 



Based on the tasks we worked on during the lessons.



Explain what a snapphane was; and why people chose to become snapphane, 



and what the consequences could be for captured snapphane and their families (p. 38-39).



Explain what a Carolinian was; and give examples of how they lived at home and in the field (p. 44-45).



Explain what the witch trials were (p. 40-41) 



give examples of possible causes of the witch trials and name the consequences of the witch trials for the women and children involved.



Sources/traces from the time of the Great Powers e.g. diaries, clothes, objects, paintings, church books, court records, letters and their reliability



(pages 4-5, 11-13, 15, 20-21, 24-25, 32-35 etc. where images/objects from the period of Great Power are found). 



You should be able to compare two sources and explain clearly why one source is more reliable than the other. 



Look at your notes, assignments and presentation from the lessons.