Nature tells the time

Can you see time? How can you tell that time is passing? 
When you look at your watch, you see the second hand or numbers ticking. 
This is how you know that time is passing. But is it possible to tell time in other ways than by looking at the clock?

If you follow the sun during a day, you will see the sunrise in the east and the sunset in the west. 
The light of the sun tells you that a day has passed. If you have more patience, you can study a seed germinating and growing up.
For a long time, humans have learned to follow nature's changes as signs that time is passing. 
Migratory birds appear in the sky during certain periods, and mushrooms and berries grow in the forest. 
The starry sky also changes throughout the year, and the moon changes its appearance quite often.
Sometimes there is a full moon and sometimes it is not visible at all.

The Earth's axis.  Sun rays. Daytime. Night. The equator. Time

The way we divide time into days, months and years is related to several things: 
the Earth spins on its axis, the Moon orbits the Earth and the Earth orbits the Sun.
From the time the sun appears in the middle of the sky, it takes 24 hours until it does so again. 

These 24 hours are called a 24-hour period. It is the time it takes for the Earth to move one revolution around its own axis, the Earth's axis.

The word month is related to the word moon. It takes about one month for the moon to make one revolution around the Earth. 
And in about 365 days, one year, the Earth makes one revolution around the Sun. 
In the calendar used in most countries of the world, one year corresponds to 12 months. 
Each month has 30 or 31 days, except February which has only 28 days.

It actually takes a little more than 365 days for the Earth to make one revolution around the Sun. 
And a month is also not exactly one revolution of the moon, but a little less. 
To ensure that the seasons and months are correct, an extra day is added to the calendar every four years. 
These years are called leap years and February has 29 days.

Midnight sun photographed over several hours. The sun is above the horizon throughout the day.