The Earth

Earth is a planet and our home in the Universe. 

It is sometimes referred to as the 'blue planet' because 70% of its surface is covered by water. 
The presence of water is necessary for life to exist.
This is why the distance between the Earth and the Sun is perfect. 
If the Earth were closer to the Sun, it would get too hot here and the water would evaporate. 
If the Earth were further away from the Sun, it would be so cold that the water would freeze.

Around the Earth is a layer of air, the atmosphere. It contains gases that are essential for life on Earth. The atmosphere also protects us.
It retains heat at the Earth's surface and evens out temperature differences between day and night.

So, life on Earth has been possible because of the Earth's distance from the Sun and the presence of water, oxygen and a protective atmosphere. 
As far as we know today, life in the solar system only exists on our planet.

The moon

Our closest neighbor in space is the Moon. 
It was formed by an explosion when large boulders came hurtling towards the Earth, which was then quite newly formed. 
In the beginning, the Moon was also often bombarded by other boulders. 
The large craters on the Moon's surface are the traces of these collisions.

At night, it looks like the Moon is shining, but it is not.
It is the Sun shining on the Moon. The light we see is the sun's rays reflected, mirrored, on the moon's surface.

When we look at the Moon, we always see the same side of it, because the Moon moves around the Earth. 
The first time we saw the far side of the Moon was in 1959, when a Soviet space probe went around the Moon and took pictures of it. 
How we see the Moon depends both on how the Sun shines on it and on where it is in its orbit around the Earth. 
The different appearances of the Moon are called phases. Full moon and new moon are two of them.

The Earth seen from the Moon, an 'Earthrise'. Unlike the Earth, the Moon has no protective atmosphere.
Therefore, the temperature changes a lot between night and day, from -150"C to +100"C.

The phases of the moon. The new moon. Crescent moons in waxing. full moon. Crescent moon in waning. descending.