Think about it. When did you last use information from a satellite?

Studying Earth and space

A satellite is often sent up with a specific task. 
Some satellites take pictures of the Earth, which are then studied and analyzed to learn about the Earth. 
The images can show details, such as streets and houses. 
Images can be compared to track changes in nature, such as melting glaciers or deforestation.

Some satellites are used to spy on other countries for military purposes. 
Others are used to look even further into space. 
They carry large telescopes that can photograph distant galaxies. 
This is better than looking through telescopes from Earth, as clouds and other atmospheric conditions make it difficult to see far.

Weather satellites

Satellites can also be used to study weather. You can see how clouds move and how high up they are. 
They can also measure how humid and cold the atmosphere is. 
All the images and information sent down by the satellites are carefully studied by meteorologists, specialists in weather. 
They can then make a forecast for the weather in the near future.
Data from weather satellites helps meteorologists determine where and when storms and hurricanes will hit. 
Such forecasts are useful, for example, for people traveling by sea.

Communication satellites

Satellites can also be used for communication. 
On Earth, there are masts and stations that can receive and send signals between each other. 
A satellite can then act as a very tall mast that can send signals over greater distances than masts on the ground. 
Satellites are used for data traffic, telephony and live television broadcasting. 
Satellites also make it possible to access the internet in places where there are no masts or other networks, for example at sea.

Today, it is very common to have a GPS in your car, boat or mobile phone. 
GPS stands for Global Positioning System - global system for positioning, to indicate a location very precisely. 
It was first used in the military. A GPS receives signals from several different satellites simultaneously. 
By combining the signals, you can determine exactly where something is.

Satellite image of a hurricane approaching the Florida coast.

GPS is common in cars.