Because the force of gravity 'pulls' bodies towards each other, it is sometimes called the force of attraction. 
It can also be called gravity.

Forces of the solar system

The gravitational force acts between two bodies, no matter how small and light they are. 
But for the force to be felt, at least one of them must be very large and heavy. 
The Earth is big and heavy enough for the gravitational force to be felt. 
The Earth affects the Moon with a gravitational force that keeps the Moon in an almost circular orbit around the Earth. 
The Sun is a giant in our solar system and influences all the celestial bodies in the solar system. 
With its gravitational pull, the Sun keeps all its planets in specific orbits.

All bodies influence each other with gravitational force. 
The closer the bodies are and the bigger they are, the greater the gravitational force between them. 
The rocks are more affected by the Earth's gravitational pull than by each other's, because the Earth is so big. This is why they are stationary.

Tides

The Moon is our closest celestial body. It affects us with its gravitational pull in a noticeable way. 
The force is so strong that it tries to reshape the Earth. 
The Earth's crust is hard and stable and keeps its shape, but the water in the oceans is affected. 
We hardly notice it in the seas around Sweden, partly because we don't have very deep seas.
But a little further south, like in the UK or France, the sea recedes and comes back twice a day. 
This is called a tide.

When the water rises, it is called a flood and when the water recedes, it is called an ebb. 
At most, the difference in water level between ebb and flood can be more than 10 meters. 
In many parts of the world, the water in ports and canals can disappear completely at low tide, leaving boats on a dry bottom. 
It is therefore important for fishermen, recreational sailors and seafarers to know when the tide is out.

To inform and avoid accidents, water levels have been measured over a number of years and tables have been drawn up giving the times of ebb and flood and the associated water levels.