Sometimes you want to increase friction

When skiing uphill, you want a lot of friction to avoid slipping backwards. 
So you put a different kind of wax in the middle of the ski, just under your foot. 
When you go uphill, you weigh the ski down there and get a grip.

When braking with the car, you also want a lot of friction. You want to be able to stop as quickly as possible.
To avoid slipping and sliding on slippery roads, you can create more friction with winter tires that provide better grip on the road. 
Winter tires have more tread depth, an uneven surface that grips snow and ice. 
Some tires have metal studs that provide even better grip on really slippery roads.

You can also wear studs on your shoes to prevent slipping when walking in winter. 
Football boots have a kind of studs or spikes, called studs, to provide good grip on the pitch. 
With good grip, you can make quick stops, change direction and gain traction to run after the ball.

Without friction
We find it hard to imagine a world without friction. 
If there was no friction, you would keep sliding all the time once you gained speed. 
But you wouldn't be able to gain speed because you would have no grip. 
Yes, you hear yourself that it is very hard to imagine.

In the vacuum of the universe, there is no friction. There is no air or anything else to stop it.

The ball would continue to move forward forever if there was no force to slow it down. 
The frictional force here is made up of air resistance and friction against the surface.

When contact surfaces move against each other, friction is converted into energy in the form of heat. 
You use this heat when you light a match. The flammable substance on the match is rubbed against a rough surface. 
The friction creates sparks that light the match.

To increase friction, winter car tires have larger tread depths or studs. 
Tractor tires can be fitted with snow chains instead.

Think about it

If you rub your hands together, they get warm.

?What do you think the force might be