Center of gravity

Why is it difficult to keep your balance when standing on one leg or riding a unicycle? 
Well, it's because you have a very small support surface against the ground. 
To avoid tipping, you need to position your center of gravity very precisely, just above the support surface. All objects have a center of gravity. 
If an object has a simple shape and is made of the same material, for example a brick, the center of gravity is right in the middle. 
The center of gravity is the point in the object where the gravitational force pulls. 
In physics, we sometimes want to show the forces that affect an object. 
This is done by drawing a force arrow that starts from the imaginary center of gravity.

Force and counterforce

You are standing with an apple in your hand. 
If you let go of the apple, it falls to the ground because of the Earth's gravitational force. 
This force pulls on the apple even if you hold it. 
The apple doesn't fall because you are holding it with an equal, upward force, a counteracting force.

A counterforce, such as friction, acts on something that moves. Sometimes you benefit from the counterforce. 
When you swim and push the water backwards, it is the counterforce of the water that makes you move forward.
When a rocket takes off, the same thing happens: the burning gas fuel is pushed downwards and the counterforce lifts the rocket upwards.

Support surface. 

For an object to be stable, its center of gravity must be directly above the support surface, otherwise the object will tip. 
When you ride a unicycle, you have such a small support surface that it is easy to wobble.
This puts your center of gravity outside the support surface. This is why it is difficult to ride a unicycle without falling. 

counteracting force. gravitational force

The apple is affected by a counteracting force from the hand. Without it, the apple would fall through the hand.
The gravitational force, of course, pulls on every little part of the apple. 
To show how it acts, draw an arrow of force starting from the center of the apple, the apple's center of gravity. 

Counterforce. force.

If you are sitting in a boat and want to push it off the dock, you push against the edge of the dock. 
It is the counterforce that makes the boat move.

Translated with DeepL.com (free version)