Life in the sea

For a long time, from the very first primordial cells, life continued to develop in the ocean. 

By 600 million years ago, bacteria and algae had multiplied in the warm water. 

The water looked green from all the living organisms that were there. 

More and more oxygen was being produced. Some cyanobacteria had changed and lacked the colorant chlorophyll. 

Therefore, they should have died out, but they did not. 

Instead, they lived by feeding on blue-green cyanobacteria, thus obtaining the nutrients they needed. 

They also used the oxygen produced by bacteria and algae. 

This is how the first animals were formed.

The strange paramecium.

Although not among the very first animals to live in the sea, paramecium are interesting to us. 

They are still around and therefore we can study them. 

They are single-celled and belong to a group of animals called primordial animal. 

This single cell can swim by waving small threads called cilia. 

The paramecium can eat bacteria by taking them in via a cell mouth. 

Once the paramecium has digested the food, it releases the remains through a cell opening. 

It can defend itself by shooting arrows at another animal that threatens it.

It can reproduce by dividing in half, but also by mating with another paramecium.

Fungi and cnidarians

The main difference between plants and animals is that plants can produce nutrients through photosynthesis. 

Animals, on the other hand, cannot produce their own food. They have to eat other animals or plants to get nutrients. 

Some small, simple multicellular animals that evolved early on were sponges. 

They filtered water to get nutrients.

Another animal that evolved was the Cnidaria. 

It had weapons to hunt with, a kind of poison darts that were shot at its prey. 

The animal hit was paralyzed and eaten by the Cnidaria. 

Poison darts were also used as a defense against attacking animals. 

Some Cnidaria resembled upside-down plates. They were a kind of jellyfish. 

Others stuck to the bottom and stretched their tentacles towards the surface. 

One group of Cnidaria had the ability to form an outer skeleton of lime. 

Inside the limestone skeleton, the tiny cnidaria were well protected. They are called coral animals.  

These are the animals that have built all the world's coral reefs.

Jellyfish and coral animals that live in our oceans today act like the cnidarians of the past and are similar to them.

paramecium. Sponges. Horn coral.