Carl Linnaeus

Swedish botanist Carl Linnaeus lived in the 18th century. 

He laid the foundations for the classification of animals and plants. 

He was inspired by the ideas of others and spent a lot of time on research and study trips. 

Linnaeus was mostly interested in plants, but he thought that both plants and animals should have two names: a genus name and a species name. 

Both names should be in Latin, which was the language of science at the time. 

Choosing Latin names made it easier for scientists in different countries to understand each other. 

Linnaeus' system has survived. Even today, both plant and animal species are named in this way.

Lingonberry. European blueberry

The blueberry genus is called Vaccinium in Latin. It consists of several species. 

Both blueberries and lingonberries belong to the blueberry genus. 

Therefore, their Latin names start with Vaccinium. The second name indicates the species. 

The flower is called Linnea borealis. It was Linnaeus' favorite flower and was therefore given the genus name Linnea. 

Borealis is a species name and means 'northern'.

Charles Darwin

Charles Darwin was born in 1809 in England. Even as a child he was very interested in collecting shells, butterflies, beetles and rocks. 

His father wanted his son to become a doctor, but Darwin did not do well in his medical studies. 

Instead, he started studying to be a priest, and he kept his interest in animals.

When Darwin was 20, he had the chance to join a ship on a five-year voyage around the world. 

This gave him the opportunity to collect plants, animals and fossils. 

When Darwin returned to England, he began to reflect on what he had seen and experienced. 

One of his discoveries was that almost all animals have many young, but only a few of them survive. 

This is because there are more individuals born than there is food or habitat for. 

He understood that the individuals that survive are those that are best adapted to the demands of their environment. 

Darwin called this 'natural selection'.