Evolution. Evolution is the term used when talking about the development of life. 

In simple terms, it means that all living things adapt to their environment and can change over time. 

This change occurs for a variety of reasons and can affect both the appearance and behavior of one or more species.

The theory of evolution

All living things have a common origin, but not all species arose at the same time. 

Species change and evolve all the time. This gives rise to new species. 

The scientific explanation of how life develops is called the theory of evolution. 

Darwin thought it went something like this:

A herd of deer is grazing on a savannah in Africa. 

All the calves in the herd are like siblings - similar, yet slightly different. 

For example, some calves may have slightly longer necks than the others. 

During dry periods, grass becomes scarce and many animals starve to death. 

But the calves with longer necks survive because they can reach up and feed on the lush leaves of the acacia trees. 

The longer neck thus increases their chances of survival. 

When they reach adulthood and mate, the longer neck trait is inherited and more such calves are born. 

These animals are probably the origin of modern-day giraffes.

Evolution is always happening

Evolution happens all the time - new species appear and others die out.

When a habitat changes, those species that can adapt to the change will survive. 

They will continue to find food, find a mate and have young. 

For plants, it's about continuing to spread seeds.

Those species that are unable to adapt to the changing environment will disappear, become extinct. 

And because each species is part of a food chain, the disappearance of one species can affect other species in the same food chain.

A habitat can be changed naturally by a forest fire, a volcanic eruption or a warming or cooling climate. 

Another change can be the takeover of a particular species by spreading and displacing other species. 

The habitat can also be changed by humans, by cutting down forests, cultivating large areas or releasing dangerous chemicals.

Wheat is an example of a plant that is well adapted to different environments. 

This is why it can be grown in many places on Earth.