Reading comprehension text 2 - The circus girl



I was six years old when my mother sold me to a circus. 



She got money for a warm woolen coat and a pair of leather gloves. 



The ringmaster, Madame Zenitha or Wilhelmina Pettersson as she was really called, got a piece of light-colored rubber child that she could train. 



The business deal, or perhaps one should call it persuasion, was concluded on a cold February evening in 1917.



I was sitting in the stairwell waiting for my mother to come home from her work at the restaurant. 



The porter's thirteen-year-old daughter Brita was paid forty cents a day to look after me. 



As usual, she had gotten tired sometime in the afternoon and told me to play in the yard while she ran an errand. 



A few hours later I heard her giggling with a couple of boys down by the water.



It was cold outside. It stung like a cat had bitten my toes. 



Mom had stuffed my oversized boots full of newspaper to keep the cold out. 



But it didn't help much.



To keep my mind off the cold, I made snow lanterns and little snowmen from the snow that the gatekeeper had shoveled up in drifts in the courtyard.



Actually, I was not allowed to go outside the gate. 



But I always used to take a walk when I got tired of waiting for Brita. 



I watched out for the taxis and the tram. 



And I could hear from far away when the big brewer's horse was coming my way. 



I stuck to the alleys, sometimes venturing all the way down to Fisktorget. 



I both loved and hated the smell that lay like a thick fog over the square. 



It was a sweet and sour, raw smell, as if the sea had been taken up and slowly allowed to die.



A couple of times I was close to nibbling on one of the jumping fish, but the fat market cats always beat me to it. 



They sat and lurked here and there, and they were at the prey before anyone could blink. 



Sometimes there were fights over the fish. The cats hissed and screamed like babies.



But then one of the fishmongers' wives was always there to throw water over them.



It was all a big spectacle, and I had the best seat in the world to watch it from. 



I used to sit crouched on a projecting stone pillar. 



It sat on the bridge that led from Fisktorget to the nicer part of town called Söder.



In winter, it was not easy to get up to the bridge pillar because the railing was narrow and slippery with snow and ice. 



But I was sometimes sledging, sometimes balancing. My long socks were all wet on my knees afterwards. 



A wetness that froze into ice while I sat there shivering. 



But it was worth freezing, the view was even better than the one you had at the top of the attic in our house. 



Sometimes I imagined that I could see to the end of the world, 



because surely that must be where the sky and the sea merged into one gray-blue line?



It was in late fall, sitting there on my lookout, watching the sea meet the sky, that I first met Madame Zenitha. 



I had taken off both my shoes and my wool socks to get a foothold while climbing. 



As I balanced my feet one in front of the other on the cold stone railing, I kept my eyes on the square. 



Then suddenly I heard a voice behind me.



I've never seen a tightrope walker like that, and God knows I've seen many!



I wobbled a little, but regained my balance and crawled up onto the little ledge before turning around to see who was talking.



Under the bridge abutment stood a round woman looking up at me. 



She didn't fit in at all at the fish market, 



where most of the customers were housekeepers and maids sent out by their employers to buy fish for dinner. 



No, this was a fine lady, I was sure of it. 



She had a big fancy hat with long white feathers that looked like they were flying in the wind, and her dress was the color of the sky when it blushed.



If the clothes almost took my breath away, I was less impressed by her face. 



She looked almost like a man with coarse features and a nose as wide as the hasp of our toilet.



She asked me to come down, told me to jump. 



I hesitated for a moment, but she held up her hands so pleadingly that I finally jumped. 



She caught me with arms as strong as the porter's.



I was a little surprised when she started pulling my hair and praising my light curls. 



But to my relief, she didn't ask where I was from or where I lived.



A few days later, she was there again, talking to me, and over time it became a habit to meet her at the stone bridge.



But strangely, she never bought anything at the market.



In fact, she seemed more interested in me than in the fish.



Then one day, I don't remember exactly when, but it must have been just after the first snow had come, she stood outside our gate.



I stiffened up and my cheeks started to burn when I spotted her. 



I thought she was there to tell my mom where I used to hang out. 



But she didn't say anything about it, just walked into our kitchen and said she had an offer she thought mom might be interested in.



Mom told me to go out in the yard and play for a while, and I did as she asked, even though I would have preferred to stay and listen.



Madame Zenitha's visit didn't last very long, and she greeted me kindly as she went out of the gate.



But my mother didn't seem to enjoy the meeting as much,



for her cheeks were red and she set the plates down hard on the table as she set the table.



She never told me what Madame Zenitha had been up to, and I never asked.



A few weeks later Madame was back again. 



This time the visit was even shorter, and when I came in from the courtyard, where I had been banished, I saw that my mother had been crying.



I asked her what was wrong, but she didn't answer, just looked deeply into my eyes and asked me if I wasn't well with her.



I replied that I was, and then she hugged me tightly. 



When she finally let me go, my hair was all wet.



Perhaps my mother would never have sold me if that accident had not happened. 



Over the next few years, I often thought about what had happened and blamed myself for being so clumsy.