The pyramid of power.
This is how Swedish society was thought to be structured. 
At the top was the king and at the bottom were the peasants.
Only God ruled over the king.
Only 0.5% of Swedes belonged to noble families.
1% belonged to the clergy. 
The priests had to obey both God and the king and take care of the people.
2% were city dwellers. 
They included burghers such as merchants and craftsmen, but also workers and their families.
95% belonged to the peasantry.
These were peasants, peasant women, farmhands and maids who worked the land.
Without the work and taxes of the peasants, Sweden could not have been a great power.
And then there was the 1.5% who had other professions, such as doctors and teachers.
Who ruled Sweden?
The Council.
Axel Oxenstierna changed how the country should be governed.
The king would not be allowed to decide everything himself. 
He would have a council to help him. 
The council consisted of five officials who were nobles from the high nobility, the richest nobility. 
The officers were given different areas of responsibility and had a lot of power.
Riksdag.
The king also had to listen to the Riksdag.
For example, the Riksdag could say yes or no to the king's proposals for new laws and taxes.
The Riksdag was divided into the four estates: nobility, clergy, burghers and peasants. 
They used to meet in Stockholm at regular intervals. 
The estates met in separate houses. 
Messengers ran between the houses to hear how the different estates intended to vote. 
If the king was worried that they would not vote the way he wanted, he could visit the estates and try to persuade them.
The Riksdag was not equal. Farmers who did not own their farm were not allowed to participate. 
Women were not allowed in, nor were poor or itinerant people.
Compared with how few nobles there were in Sweden, they had a lot to decide.
Nobles and peasants.
The nobles became more powerful and richer during the 17th century. 
They plundered during wars abroad and received land and riches in payment from the king in Sweden.
For the peasants, the period of great power was a hard time. 
They were treated badly by the nobility, paid high taxes and many died in the wars. 
But the fact that Sweden became more orderly was in some ways good for the peasants. 
They could get justice against nobles in the courts. 
The peasants sat in the Riksdag and helped to govern Sweden. 
Over a tenth of students at universities were the sons of farmers. 
Compared with the rest of Europe, Swedish peasants were quite well off. 
That's why there were no major peasant uprisings in Sweden like in other European countries.
What was unfair about this way of governing Sweden?