Two Carolinas 



Carolinians in captivity



Thousands of Carolinians were imprisoned in Russia after the Battle of Poltava in 1709. 



Some prisoners wrote letters home to their families.



The prisoners stayed in Russia for several years and many died. 



Some managed to get home, but it was not easy.



Lorenz was a prisoner of war in Ukraine. He tried to escape but was captured. 



He was moved to Siberia where he worked in a copper mine. 



He escaped once more but was captured in Finland. 



He was whipped and spent two years in prison. 



He then worked as a teacher for Russian children.



Lorenz escaped a third time and finally managed to get home to Dalarna. 



After ten years at home, he wrote to the king asking for his soldier's pay from his time as a prisoner. 



He had difficulty coping on his own because he was badly injured after his imprisonment. 



His head was cut to pieces and one shoulder was badly damaged. 



In his letter to the King, he described everything he had been through.



The Carolinian Vilhelm Edstedt



On the Stensjö farm in Småland lived an old Carolin with six daughters. 



Five of them married soldiers. 



The sixth daughter Ulrika Eleonora sewed men's clothes for herself from her father's soldier's coat when he died. 



She rode north to Stockholm and pretended to be a man. 



A lieutenant let her ride and hunt with him. 



In Kalmar, she called herself Vilhelm Edstedt and got work as a soldier.



She worked with cannons and wore a dark, steel gray uniform so that the soot would not be so visible. 



Ulrika Eleonora helped with Kalmar's defense and did well. 



When Charles XII visited the castle, she stood guard.



Ulrika Eleonora met the maid Maria Lönman.



They got married. Ulrika Eleonora revealed to Maria that she was a woman. 



As they got on well together, they decided to continue living as married couples. 



But after a few years, one of Ulrika Eleonora's sisters found out what had happened. 



She wrote to Ulrika Eleonora that pretending to be a man was a crime against God and that she felt sorry for Maria.



A few years later, Ulrika Eleonora stopped being a soldier and started wearing women's clothes again. 



However, a court sentenced her to one month in prison and Maria to eight days in prison. 



They then lived apart for the rest of their lives. 



Thanks to the records of the trial, we know what happened.



Who was allowed to become a soldier?