Forces that build up the Earth's surface.
As the continental plates move, the Earth's surface changes. 
This happens both on land and on the ocean floor.
As the plates move apart, large cracks appear in the Earth's crust.
Volcanic eruptions and earthquakes often occur along these cracks.
When volcanoes erupt, magma can pour out of the Earth's interior. 
This glowing mass is called lava.
The lava that flows out solidifies. 
It gradually builds up with new lava and gets higher and higher.
In the Atlantic Ocean, a long chain of underwater mountains has been formed in this way. 
It is called the Mid-Atlantic Ridge.
The island of Iceland is actually a small peak of this mountain range, 
rising above the surface of the sea.
A tsunami is a giant wave that can sweep across the coastline.
The world map shows the different continental plates.
In some areas, the plates slide alongside each other, but in different directions.
This can cause them to get stuck together. 
When this happens, earthquakes or tremors can occur.
If an earthquake occurs on the ocean floor, it can create giant waves, 
tsunamis, which move inland.
In areas where plates collide with each other, volcanic eruptions and earthquakes also occur. 
When two plates on land collide with each other, mountains can form. 
The crust is then pushed upwards and folded into huge mountain ranges.
But this is something that goes on for many millions of years. 
So it happens very slowly.
The Scandes, the Alps, the Pyrenees and the Himalayas are mountain ranges formed in this way.
Forces that level the earth's surface.
As soon as a mountain is formed on Earth, it slowly starts to break down. 
But it happens so slowly that we don't notice it.
There are several different forces that turn the rock into stone, sand and gravel.
Above all, winds, water, heat and cold wear down the rock. 
Winds and running water move soil, sand and gravel. 
Large ocean waves wear down the rocks and carry away sand and gravel, 
which can become large sandy beaches.
But the rock can also crumble, or crack, if there are large differences in temperature.
If the rock gets warm on sunny days and then cools down at night, the rock can crumble. 
A glacier, a mass of ice, rubs against the rock as it moves and slides slowly.
Rainwater can contain acidic and corrosive substances, which can cause mountains to crumble.
When wind, water, heat and cold cause mountains to crumble and level off, it is collectively known as erosion.