THE GEOGRAPHY OF EUROPE.
Ireland.
Connemara pony.
Nature and natural resources.
Ireland is a very green island with large grasslands and pastures. 
There is almost no forest here, but a lot of wetlands.
To the west, high cliffs plunge straight into the Atlantic.
Some cliffs such as the Cliffs of Moher can reach a height of over 200 meters.
Many different bird species thrive in Ireland, such as seabirds, such as puffins, thrushes and the common murre.
Ireland exports large quantities of mutton.
Today, Ireland is better known for its manufacturing of computers and computer equipment.
The fairy tale hero Gulliver.
Several great writers come from Ireland.
Many great writers are Irish.
Lemuel Gulliver is a fairy tale hero in a book written by Jonathan Swift.
Gulliver visits the land of both the little putties and the giants.
The green island.
Ireland is often referred to as the green island.
The landscape on the island is really shining green.
Perhaps the greenery is because it rains often and the winters are mild.
Since large parts of the island consist of lush green grass, there are many farmers who keep livestock.
Everywhere you see sheep and cows grazing.
Irish farmers also breed horses.
The west of Ireland is famous for its little Connemara ponies.
Halloween is originally an Irish tradition.
Then the day was called All Hallows' Eve, which means All Saints' Eve.
Important cities and places.
The capital of Ireland is called Dublin.
It was founded by Vikings already in the 9th century.
Some of the city's most famous buildings are the university Trinity College and Dublin Castle.
In Dublin is probably the world's largest beer brewery, Guinness.
This brewery is also responsible for the fantastic annual Guinness Book of Records.
On the south coast is Ireland's second largest city called Cork.
From the beginning there was a monastery here.
But the Vikings once developed the place into a trading post.
Limerick is not only the name of a city, but also of funny, and sometimes a little cheeky, rhyming poems.
Tipperary is another place made famous by an American settler song.
Did you know there are no snakes in Ireland?
According to legend, they were scared away by Ireland's patron saint, Saint Patrick.
Tengnäs Teaching aids.
Copying material.
Item No. 446
