The small banking country. Luxembourg.
About 400,000 people live in the small country of Luxembourg.
If you look at the number of inhabitants, Luxembourg is one of the richest countries in the world.
The capital of the country is also called Luxembourg.
Here is the grand duke's palace, called Palais Grand-Ducal.
Right next door is the magnificent Notre Dame Cathedral.
The famous bridge Pont Adolphe is named after a Grand Duke Adolphe.
The city center is cut by the river Alzette.
Today, the city of Luxembourg is best known for being the center of more than 200 banks.
Most are actually foreign. The banks pay tax and therefore provide good income to Luxembourg.
The old castle of Clervaux.
Adolphe Bridge in Luxembourg.
A plateau country with beautiful valleys.
Luxembourg is a beautiful plateau country with several beautiful valleys.
The rivers Mosel and Sauer together form the border with Germany.
In the river valleys, quantities of grapes are grown, which are then turned into wine.
The highest elevation in the country is called Buurgplaatz (559 m).
In the northern part of the country is Clervaux.
There is a famous castle, which began to be built already in the 9th century.
Luxembourg - an important city within the EU.
The city of Luxembourg is also an important city for the EU, the European Union.
Here there are e.g. The EU's highest court.
Monaco. Disaster at the casino in Monte Carlo
The world's second smallest country. Monaco is actually the second smallest country in the world.
It is located on the French Riviera near the border with Italy.
Monaco is a small principality, which really only consists of one city.
Monaco was founded by the Greeks in the 5th century BC. Then the city was called Monoikos.
Today, Monaco consists of four different districts.
One of them is Monte Carlo, which is famous for its large casino.
Those who live in Monaco do not have to pay tax on the money they earn.
That is why sports stars and others who earn a lot of money like to move to Monaco.