The Alps - a young mountain range.
The Alps are Europe's highest mountain range.
It stretches through the countries of France, Switzerland, Italy, Germany, Austria, Liechtenstein and Slovenia.
The Alps are a young mountain range. It is "only" 65 million years old.
This can be seen from the fact that the Alps have so many high and pointed mountain peaks.
Since the Alps were formed, the mountain peaks have not had time to be ground down so much by wind, cold, heat and water.
The Alps have thus not been exposed to any major erosion.
You can compare the Alps with our own mountain range Skandernas.
The Scandana Mountains are 400 million years old and much older than the Alps.
Therefore, the mountain peaks in the Scandana are significantly lower than in the Alps.
During all the millions of years, the mountain peaks of Scandra have had time to grind down considerably more than the mountain peaks of the Alps have done.
ourism in the Alps.
In the Alps, there are plenty of fine ski slopes that attract large numbers of tourists.
Therefore, you can say that high mountains, beautiful nature and sparkling snow are a kind of natural resource.
Lots of tourists come to the Alps to hike in the summer or go downhill skiing in the winter.
Tourism therefore provides countries such as Switzerland and Austria with large incomes all year round.
Ski slopes are a natural resource.
Many goods are sold to other countries.
In central Europe, there are many industries that manufacture large quantities of goods.
It can be cars, computers, pharmaceuticals, trucks, watches, shoes, clothes, glass and tractors.
Many of these goods are exported to other countries.
Several of the countries in central Europe grow wheat, corn, sunflowers, peppers, apples, hops and grapes.
Part of this provides export goods such as wine and beer.
Many cows are allowed to graze on steep alpine meadows.
Popular cheeses and famous chocolate are made from the cows' milk.
Cheese and chocolate are common goods from the Alpine countries.