Austria.
In western Austria lies the charming landscape of Tyrol.
The typical Tyrolean houses have wide roofs and large upper floors.
The balconies are usually overflowing with flowers.
Many people think that the Tyrolean houses in particular are something that is very typical for Austria.
Spanish riding school in Vienna.
Nature and natural resources.
Almost two-thirds of the country of Austria lies in the mountain range of the Alps.
Many of the mountain slopes of the Alps are beautifully covered with forests and meadows.
In the Alps, there are plenty of well-visited ski resorts, such as Kitzbuhel, Zell am See and Sankt Anton.
The ski slopes are an important natural asset.
Austria's highest mountain peak is called the Grossglockner and is 3797 meters.
In the east there is a large plain around the river Danube.
There is good arable land here, where grain, grapes and apples are grown.
In the Austrian mountains, there is plenty of both iron ore and salt.
Almost half of Austria's surface is covered by forest.
The forest industry is also well developed and produces paper and wood products.
Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart.
is perhaps the world's best-known and most loved composer.
Mozart was born in the city of Salzburg.
Already as a little boy, he was considered a musical prodigy.
Little Wolfgang therefore had to travel around to the finest courts in Europe to give concerts.
Tyrolean house. Important cities and places.
The capital of Austria is called Vienna.
The city is famous for its old and beautiful buildings,
such as the Hofburg Winter Palace and the mighty St. Stephen's Cathedral.
The most visited is probably the magnificent summer palace Schönbrunn.
In the Hofburg Palace is the Spanish Riding School.
Since 1735, white Lipizzaner horses have been trained here to perform astonishing arts.
Vienna is also home to the famous Prater amusement park.
Here there is a 65 meter high Ferris wheel, which is called Riesenrad.
Innsbruck is the country's second largest city.
In the city center is a famous house from 1496 with a golden roof - Goldener Dachl.
Innsbruck hosted the Winter Olympics in both 1964 and 1976.
Salzburg, like the city of Vienna, is a great city of music.
Mozart appears as a little boy.
What do you know about Austria? Paint the flag of Austria.
Map of Austria.
Take out your map book and look up Austria.
Which places are marked on the map next to this? urban area Mountain. water
Questions about Austria.
Name three different natural resources found in Austria.
Describe what a Tyrolean house looks like.
Which of the sights of the city of Vienna would you like to visit? Why?