Switzerland. Cuckoo clock. Emmental cheese and Toblerone.
Switzerland is a small mountainous country in the middle of the Alps mountain range.
Monte Rosa and the Matterhorn are the highest mountain peaks in Switzerland.
One of the world's longest road tunnels runs through the Alps.
It is called Sankt Gotthard and is 16 km long.
Nature and natural resources.
Switzerland consists mostly of mountains with high peaks.
In the valleys and on the steep slopes, green grass grows in the summer.
Watchmaking is an important industry for Switzerland.
They manufacture everything from cuckoo clocks to luxury watches such as Rolex.
Alpine Switzerland does not have much arable land.
Fruit, vegetables and grains are mostly grown in the river valleys.
The Swiss cows are content to graze on sloping alpine meadows.
Good cheeses and chocolate are made from the milk.
Emmentaler and Gruyere are the names of two famous cheeses from Switzerland.
Toblerone is a good Swiss chocolate.
The shape of the chocolate and the package have been taken from the Matterhorn mountain peak.
Tourists travel to the Swiss Alps in both summer and winter.
Tourism is important for the country as it creates many jobs in hotels, restaurants and ski resorts.
Important cities and places.
Switzerland is one of the world's richest countries.
Many banks have their offices in Switzerland.
If you have collected stamps from Switzerland,
then you might have discovered that it says Helvetia on them.
It is the old name of the country.
The capital is called Berne, but the largest city is Zurich.
By the way, Berne is named after the German word der Bär, which means the bear.
Basel is the country's only port city.
Cargo boats from Basel can reach the sea by plying the Rhine River.
Wilhelm Tell was the name of a freedom hero who lived at the end of the 13th century.
According to legend, he was forced to hit an apple on his son's head with a crossbow and arrow.
What do you know about Switzerland?
Paint Switzerland flag.
Switzerland map.
Take out your map book and look up Switzerland.
Which places are marked on the map next to this?
urban area. water. Mountain.
Questions about Switzerland.
The Swiss cows graze on steep alpine meadows.
What export goods are made from cows' milk?
In what ways is tourism important to Switzerland?
Find out more facts about freedom hero Wilhelm Tell. Who was he?