Transportation by airplane.
The big advantage of shipping goods by air is that it is fast.
In addition, goods can be transported long distances in a short time.
Suitable goods to ship by air can be fresh produce such as cut flowers, fruit and vegetables.
Other goods that are often shipped by air are precious jewelry.
But using the plane as a means of transport entails a lot of disadvantages.
The flight is by far our most expensive means of transport.
Firstly, a flight is expensive, but the aircraft also does not have very much cargo space,
which further increases transport costs.
In addition, modern aircraft emit large amounts of carbon dioxide and other pollutants.
Carbon dioxide increases the greenhouse effect, which makes the climate on earth warmer.
The emissions from aircraft also contain sulphur, which damages forests, lakes, animals and people.
Living near an airport can also be an environmental problem.
The noise from planes landing and taking off at the airport is very disturbing.
The train is an environmentally friendly means of transport.
The flight is our most expensive means of transport.
Transport by train.
Transporting goods by train has many advantages.
The train runs fast and there are rarely any accidents.
In addition, you can transport a lot of goods on a freight train.
A train that has twenty fully loaded wagons takes as much cargo as fifteen trucks.
Train wagons can also transport heavy goods, such as logs and iron ore.
Above all, the train is a more environmentally friendly alternative than flights and trucks.
Most trains in Europe are powered by electricity and then they do not emit any exhaust gases or pollution.
The disadvantages of train is that it cannot reach all places that do not have a railway.
Because the trains are environmentally friendly, many countries in Europe invest in expanding the railway network.
Several high-speed trains are also being built, which travel quickly between Europe's major cities.
In this way, it is hoped that trains will be able to replace trucks, cars and airplanes in the future.
The new Eurotunnel under the English Channel means that a train journey between London and Paris now only takes 2 hours and 15 minutes.