Russia.
Did you know that Russia is the world's largest country?
It is so large that it is located in both Europe and Asia.
The mountain range of the Ural Mountains forms the border between the two continents.
On these pages we will read about the part of Russia that is in Europe.
Basil's Cathedral in Moscow.
Nature and natural resources.
In western Russia there are large plains with arable land.
Further north there are large coniferous forests, known as the taiga.
At the very top of the north is the tundra.
Here the winters are really cold and only mosses, lichens and grass grow here.
Russian ballet.
No other country in the world has as much natural resources as Russia.
Iron, tin, copper and gold are mined in Siberia.
In the Ural Mountains there are large deposits of coal, oil and natural gas.
Russia also has large forests that can be felled.
In addition, the oil, gas and hydropower from the country's large rivers make Russia self-sufficient in energy.
The Russian river Volga is Europe's longest river.
Sturgeon is caught in the Volga.
The expensive delicacy Russian caviar is made from sturgeon's rum（？）.
Moscow - Europe's largest city.
The capital of Russia is Moscow.
With its 10 million inhabitants, the city is Europe's largest city.
Here you can watch the famous Bolshoi Ballet.
It is known for its talented dancers.
Moscow also has a world famous circus.
If you're lucky, you might see dancing bears performing.
At Red Square is the Kremlin. The word Kremlin means fortress.
The Kremlin houses Russia's government buildings.
At the square is also the colorful St. Basil's Cathedral with its beautiful onion-domed towers.
The cathedral was already built in the 16th century by order of Tsar Ivan the Terrible.
The Tsar was so pleased with the beauty of the cathedral,
that he is said to have given the order that the architect's eyes should be gouged out.
This is because the architect would never again be able to design such a beautiful building for someone else.
Riding the subway, metro, in Moscow is an experience.
Several stations are like ornate palaces.
They are lavish with marble floors and crystal chandeliers.
There are plenty of shiny tiled floors, marble, art, mosaics, sculptures and glittering chandeliers.