Belarus. Why is the country called Belarus?
Some researchers believe that long ago the people lived near the country's large swamp area.
The word for swamp in Slavic is balato.
Perhaps the name Belarus, which means Belarus, comes from this word.
Others believe that the name Belarus comes from the white robes,
which the people in the area used to wear.
Bison in "Belavezzhskaya Pushcha" National Park.
Nature and natural resources.
Belarus consists largely of lowlands.
Most of it is cultivated arable land, where wheat, potatoes, sugar beet and vegetables grow.
But here there are also large deciduous and coniferous forests with elements of marshlands.
Large peat bogs are therefore common in Belarus.
Since you can make a fire with peat, you break up the peat in large blocks.
The peat then becomes cheap fuel for factories,
but it is also used to heat houses.
Peat and forest are Belarus' most important natural resources.
Hundreds of bison roam the Belavezzhskaya Pushcha National Park.
The bison is the national animal of Belarus. They are related to bison oxen.
The rare black stork thrives in the Pripet swamp.
Black storks in Pripetträsket.
Important cities and places.
Just like several other countries in Eastern Europe, Belarus became a free country in 1991.
Previously, the country had been part of the great Soviet Union.
The capital of Belarus is Minsk.
Tractors of the Belarus brand are manufactured here.
The city of Minsk was almost completely destroyed during World War II.
Other major cities are Brest, Vitebsk, Gomel and Mahiljou.
TV sets and other electronic products are manufactured in the city of Gomel.
The city of Brest has several large textile industries.
Mahiljou has manufacturing of cars and chemical products.
Belarus is sometimes called the Country of Potatoes.
Blini is popular among Belarusians.
They are small, round pancakes, which are served with a sour, thick cream, smétana.
Marc Chagall. was a famous artist who was born in the city of Vitsebsk.
Most of his life he lived and worked in France.