Ukraine. The Crimean crisis.
Ukraine is the second largest country in Europe.
The country became independent in 1991, after long belonging to the Soviet Union.
In February 2014, a political crisis started in Ukraine.
The then president then fled the country,
which later led to a Russian invasion of the Crimean Peninsula.
Unrest also occurred in eastern Ukraine,
since pro-Russian Ukrainian citizens supported the Russian invasion.
Nature and natural resources.
Almost all of Ukraine consists of a lowland with large plains.
More than half is cultivated arable land.
In the southwest, part of the great Carpathian mountain range cuts into the country.
The Dnieper River flows into the Black Sea.
Here lies the large peninsula of Crimea.
Before the Crimean crisis, many tourists went here to sunbathe and swim.
The city of Odessa is also located on the Black Sea.
Here, tourists can try bathing in healthy mud baths.
Ukraine's soils are among the most fertile in the world.
Wheat, sunflowers, potatoes, sugar beet and vegetables are grown here.
Grapes are grown on the Crimean Peninsula, which are used to make sparkling wine.
North of the Black Sea is Kryvyi Rih, which has Europe's largest area of iron ore.
The city has a large production of steel, which is exported to other countries.
Kharkiv and Donetsk are two large industrial cities in eastern Ukraine.
There are large deposits of coal here, which is used as fuel in the factories.
Lake Azov is a well-defined bay of the Black Sea.
Pelicans and herons thrive here. The sturgeon lives in the lake.
It is from this fish that you get the precious luxury item Russian caviar.
Sofia Cathedral in Kyiv. Important cities and places.
The great river Dnieper flows through the capital city of Kiev.
In the city there are many beautiful churches with golden domes.
Particularly famous is the stately Sofia Cathedral.
The dominant religion in Ukraine is Orthodox Christianity.
In the Sophia Cathedral in Kiev, the Orthodox saint Anna of Novgorod is buried.
Her real name was Ingegerd Olofsdotter and was the daughter of the Swedish king Olof Skötkonung in Sigtuna.
Ingegerd married the Grand Duke of Kiev and thus became Grand Duchess of the old Kievan Empire.
Yalta is a popular seaside resort on the Crimean coast.
The pink flamingo also thrives here.
At Poltava, the Swedish king Charles XII and his Carolines suffered a major defeat against Tsar Peter and Russia in 1709.
The nuclear accident in Chernobyl.
Chernobyl is located in northern Ukraine.
A severe nuclear accident occurred here in 1986.
Life-threatening radioactive radiation was spread into the air and many died from radiation damage.
Even today, radiation remains in nature.
In large areas it is still not possible to cultivate the land and you cannot eat fish,
mushrooms or berries that come from here.