Bulgaria. Big tourist country.
Bulgaria has become a major tourist country.
Many Swedes go down to the seaside resorts on the Black Sea.
Here we find the well-visited beaches Golden Sands and Sunny Beach.
Nature and natural resources.
Bulgaria's nature types are varied with both mountainous areas and farmland.
In the middle of the country are the Balkan Mountains.
In southern Bulgaria there are both mountain ranges, the Rila Mountains and the Rhodope Mountains.
South of the capital Sofia, we find the country's highest mountain.
It is called Musala and is 2,925 meters high.
On the Danube Plain in the north, there are many farms with large crops.
Wheat, corn and sugar beet grow here.
There are plenty of vineyards on the mountain slopes of the Balkan Mountains.
Bulgaria is a major wine country that exports wine to many countries.
Tourism is also important for the country and provides a lot of income.
In the summer, many tourists come mainly to the seaside resorts on the Black Sea.
Valley of the Roses. Beach by the Black Sea.
Important cities and places.
The capital is called Sofia and is located in the western part of the country.
The city's most famous building is the Alexander Nevsky Cathedral.
Alexander Nevsky was a national hero who defeated the Swedes at the Battle of the Neva in 1240.
He was canonized in 1547.
The city of Varna is located on the Black Sea. Large ships are built here.
Every summer the city has a big festival where they compete in ballet.
Burgas is the name of another large port city on the Black Sea.
In the country's second largest city, Plovdiv, is a 2,000-year-old Roman amphitheater.
Outside the city of Varna is Pobitete Kamani (The Petrified Forest).
These are tree trunks that have been affected by mineral water.
Finally, the wood of the trees has been replaced by the mineral opal.
Today, you can see several meter high trunks of stone.
Valley of the Roses.
In the middle of Bulgaria near the city of Kazanlak lies the Valley of the Roses.
Roses are grown here, which are used for perfume production.
Over 80% of the world's rose oil is produced in Bulgaria.