Moldova. Important cities and places.
Moldova is a small country on the border between Romania and Ukraine.
Moldova became an independent country in 1991.
Previously, the country belonged to the great Soviet Union.
When the Soviet Union dissolved, the Moldovans became a free people.
The capital of Moldova is Chisinau.
Here are the country's universities and other important colleges.
Chisinau is also home to the country's largest industries, such as food industries and engineering industries.
Many Romanian-speaking people live in Moldova.
The Moldavians also feel a very strong affinity with the Romanian people.
Since Moldova is such a poor country,
many Moldovans have moved to other countries to work and be able to send money home to their families.
Some Moldovans have traveled to rich countries to beg.
Nature and natural resources. Sunflowers.
In Moldova, the two rivers Dnestr and Prut flow.
Between the rivers is a fertile lowland.
There is plenty of arable land and agriculture here.
They mainly grow sunflowers, corn, tobacco, roses, grapes and other fruit.
Moldova is still today a poor agricultural country, with poorly developed industry.
The country's biggest exports are tobacco, corn sunflower oil and rose oil.
Turkey. Important cities and places.
Turkey has only a small part of the country in Europe.
Most of Turkey is in Asia.
In Asia is also the capital of Turkey called Ankara.
The two continents of Europe and Asia are separated by a narrow strait called the Bosphorus.
The great city of Istanbul is also located here.
When our Nordic Vikings came here to visit,
they called the city Miklagård, which means the big city.
Already in the 4th century,
the city was named Constantinople, when the Roman emperor Constantine moved here.
In Istanbul there are many famous buildings from the time of the Ottoman Empire.
The Blue Mosque, the huge church of Hagia Sofia and the Sultan's palace Topkapi.
Hagia Sophia in Istanbul. Nature and natural resources.
Most of Turkey consists of a peninsula between the Black Sea and the Mediterranean Sea.
Turkey is primarily a mountainous highland, but in the west there is some cultivated land.
Oranges, olives, cotton, wheat, grapes, nuts and tobacco are grown here.
In the mountains there is ore containing iron, copper, chrome and bauxite.
Turkey exports clothing, iron, steel, raisins and hazelnuts.