Energy and a sustainable future. What is energy?
The sun is vital for all life on earth.
Without the sun, Earth would be a planet without life. The sun gives all living things energy.
All energy actually comes from the sun in one way or another.
The sun's rays give energy to the plants on earth.
The plants in turn store the solar energy in the plant itself.
Animals and humans get this energy when the animals and we eat vegetables and fruit, but also meat.
The sun also warms the earth.
Cars run on gasoline, which is made from oil, which in turn is stored solar energy.
A train is powered by electrical energy, which may come from a hydroelectric plant,
which is powered by water that has been "lifted up" in the mountains by solar energy.
You probably know that this is called the water cycle.
Solar energy also drives the winds and ocean currents, which we can also get energy from.
There are different sources of energy.
Did you know that there are many different types of energy sources?
Some energy sources are renewed all the time. They never end.
Such energy sources are sun, wind and water.
They are called renewable energy sources.
These can e.g. provide hydropower, wind power, solar power and geothermal heat from a heated bedrock.
Fixed wind power and hydropower are actually also a form of solar power.
After all, it is the sun's energy that makes it windy and creates ocean currents and ocean waves.
It is also the sun that causes water to be "lifted" from the oceans into the mountains.
This is what is called the water cycle.
But there are also energy sources that can run out.
They are called non-renewable energy sources.
Examples of such are oil, coal and natural gas.
They count as fossil fuels. Fossil means they are unearthed.
Fossil fuels consist of dead plants and animals that lived on Earth millions of years ago.
Fossil fuels are formed extremely slowly.
So if we use them at the rate we are doing now, they will run out in the future.
All energy comes from the sun.
Europe consumes a lot of energy.
The people of Europe use a lot of energy.
Amounts of energy are used in all industries and factories.
It takes a lot of energy to produce different goods.
A lot of energy is also used to transport all the goods that are produced.
Even in all homes and households in Europe, energy is consumed.
Energy is needed for lighting and heating.
But all our devices that we have in our homes also consume a lot of energy.
It can e.g. be computers, washing machines, stoves, TVs, dishwashers and music systems.
A sailboat is powered by energy from the wind.