NON-RENEWABLE ENERGY SOURCES. Fossil fuels.
Oil, coal and gas are fossil fuels.
They were formed a very long time ago by dead plants and animals,
which have been pressed together in the earth's crust.
Oil and natural gas are extracted by drilling deep into the bedrock or the seabed.
At sea, large platforms are used from which the actual drilling takes place.
Russia, the United States and Saudi Arabia are the countries in the world that extract the most oil.
In Europe, Great Britain and Norway have large reserves of both oil and natural gas under the seabed in the North Sea.
China is the country that produces the most coal in the world.
In Europe, a lot of coal is mined in Germany, Poland, Russia and Ukraine.
Coal is mined in mines or open pits. 
In an open-pit mine, coal is mined directly at the surface of the earth without digging any tunnels underground.
Oil is the energy source that we use the most.
This is mainly due to the fact that petrol is made from oil.
The petrol is needed for all cars in Europe.
A major disadvantage when we use oil, gas and coal is that we affect the environment.
This is because when we burn fossil fuels, 
we release various substances that come into the air.
To get the oil and gas up, they drill deep into the seabed from large platforms.
Sulphur, which is one of these substances, damages lakes and forests through acidification.
Another substance that is emitted in large quantities is carbon dioxide.
Carbon dioxide is not poisonous, but it affects our climate so that it becomes warmer.
This is not good, as some countries may then find it too dry to grow crops.
Other areas may be affected by storms and floods.
Polaris and glaciers may melt, which may cause sea levels to rise.
This can cause severe flooding on the coasts.
Nuclear power.
In a nuclear power plant, uranium is used as fuel to produce energy.
When you split atomic nuclei from the substance uranium,
heat is formed which can then be converted into energy.
The advantages of nuclear power are that it provides large amounts of energy and that it does not emit any carbon dioxide,
which affects our climate.
But nuclear power also has some disadvantages.
If there is an accident at a nuclear power plant, it could be a disaster.
Then radioactive radiation from the uranium can leak out and cause serious damage to people, animals and nature.
In 1986, just such an accident occurred at a nuclear power plant in Chernobyl, Ukraine.
In addition, all waste from a nuclear power plant emits radioactive radiation.
The waste must therefore be stored in the bedrock for thousands of years.
In a nuclear power plant, uranium is used as fuel.