Maquis shrubland. a common nature type in the Mediterranean.
When people settled around the Mediterranean several thousand years ago,
they cut down forests to get arable land and wood to build houses and for fuel.
What remained were large moors on which sheep and goats were allowed to graze.
That way, the forest never had a chance to grow back.
Instead, a special nature type was formed which is now very common around the Mediterranean.
The moors consist of hardy and fragrant shrubs such as genista, heather, lavender, thyme and rosemary.
This natural type of scrub heath is called macchia.
genista is common on the macchia.
Agriculture and fishing.
In southern Europe, there are not as many natural resources as in the rest of Europe.
You have to import oil and gas from other countries.
Therefore, in several countries, they have started investing in wind turbines and solar power plants.
However, the warm climate is well suited for cultivation.
With the help of artificial irrigation, the farmers can cultivate all year round.
Hardy plants such as orange trees, lemon trees and olive trees grow here.
Grapes grow on the vines, which are used to make wine.
They also grow quantities of different vegetables, which are sold to other countries.
Octopus is caught in the Mediterranean.
Vegetables are sold to other countries.
The Mediterranean countries have long coastlines.
Therefore, fishing has always been an important industry.
Nowadays, people fish both in the Mediterranean and far out in the Atlantic.
Common catch is mainly tuna, sardines, squid and shellfish.
Large quantities are also exported as canned goods to other countries.
Tourism is the most important industry.
The most important industry for the countries around the Mediterranean is tourism.
Every year, millions of tourists come here to sunbathe and swim on popular islands such as Crete, Cyprus, Mallorca and Sicily.
But many choose to visit famous cities such as Rome, Venice, Barcelona, Athens and Lisbon.
Therefore, many people around the Mediterranean earn a living by working in hotels, restaurants and in shops.
Venice is a popular destination for many tourists.