Portugal. Lisbon is the capital of Portugal.
At the capital Lisbon, the Tagus River flows into the Atlantic Ocean.
The city is built on both sides of the river.
The oldest part of Lisbon is built on steep hills.
Here you can ride yellow trams up and down the slopes.
In some places it is possible to use a lift and funicular.
There are two really famous bridges in Lisbon.
The so-called 25 April bridge is, with its 3,255 meters, Europe's longest suspension bridge.
The newly built Vasco da Gama bridge is, with its 17,185 meters, Europe's longest bridge in all categories.
Vasco da Gama Bridge.
Important cities and places.
In 1755, Lisbon was hit by a major earthquake.
The subsequent ocean wave (tsunami) killed more than 50,000 people.
In the south lies the beautiful Algarve coast.
Millions of tourists come here to visit famous resorts such as Albufeira and Faro.
Porto is Portugal's second largest city.
In Roman times, the city was called Portus Cale, which later gave its name to the entire country.
Madeira is a flower island that belongs to Portugal.
The island is located 60 miles off the coast of Africa.
The Azores are another group of islands belonging to Portugal.
The name means Hawk Islands. The Azores are located almost in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean.
Cape Roca is mainland Europe's westernmost point.
Algarve coast. Nature and natural resources.
Portugal is mountainous and hilly in the north.
There are also deep river valleys here.
In the south, the landscape is flatter with more arable land and forests.
Portugal's coast is alternating with both cliffs and sandy beaches.
The Portuguese have always lived near the sea.
Every day, fishing boats go out along the country's borders.
At sea, swordfish, tuna and sardines are caught.
Sardines are canned and become canned fish.
Portugal has the world's largest forests of cork oak.
The stripped bark is mainly used to make wine corks, but also floors and shoe soles.
The famous port wine is also produced in Portugal.
It got its name after it used to be shipped out from the city of Porto.
Vasco da Gama. Great shipping nation.
Many famous sailors come from Portugal.
Bartholomeu Diaz was a navigator who was the first to reach the southern tip of Africa in 1488.
Vasco da Gama was the first to find the sea route to India in 1499,
while Ferdinand Magellan led the very first circumnavigation of the world.