Spain. In bullfighting, it is a matador who holds the red bullring.
Important cities and places.
The capital Madrid is located on a high plateau, known as Le Meseta.
The city is 665 meters above sea level,
which means that it is the second highest capital in Europe after the capital of Andorra.、
In Madrid is the Prado, which is a famous art museum, as well as the Palacio Real,
which is the Royal Palace and where the Spanish King lives.
Spain's second largest is called Barcelona.
The city has a large harbor and a famous pedestrian street named Les Rambles.
In Barcelona is the huge cathedral La Sagrada Familia.
At the city of Granada is the famous red castle Alhambra.
The castle was built by the Moors (Arabs) in the 14th century.
Paella is a typical Spanish dish consisting of rice, chicken, mussels, squid, and saffron.
Spanish art. Pablo Picasso is perhaps the greatest artist of the 20th century.
Ferdinand the bull is a character created by Walt Disney.
Bullfighting and football. Bullfighting is popular in Spain.
The person holding the red cloth is called the matador.
The red skykin, on the other hand, is called a muleta.
Otherwise, soccer is the most popular sport in Spain.
Three of the world's very best teams come from Spain.
They are Real Madrid, Barcelona and Atletico Madrid.
Soccer is popular in Spain.
La Sagrada Familia in Barcelona.
Nature and natural resources.
In the middle of Spain is a high plateau with large plains.
Both in the north and south there are large mountain ranges.
Several larger rivers such as the Ebro, Tajo and Guadalquivir flow through the country.
Many tourists come to Spanish islands such as Mallorca, 
Ibiza and the Canary Islands to sunbathe and swim.
On the Spanish south coast are popular tourist resorts such as Torremolinos and Benidorm.
Around the city of Valencia there are orchards with oranges, lemons and peaches.
Fruit, but also vegetables, olive oil and wine are important Spanish exports.
In the Spanish mountains there are both iron, coal and other valuable metals.
Spain's industry manufactures, among other things, cars and machinery.