Serbia. Important cities and places.
Serbia is one of the youngest countries in Europe.
In 2006, Yugoslavia ceased to exist as a state and so did the union with Montenegro.
Both Serbia and Montenegro are now two independent states.
Since then, the province of Kosovo, in the south of the country, has also declared itself an independent country.
Serbia has not yet approved Kosovo's secession.
Reactions from the rest of the world have been mixed.
Serbia's capital Belgrade is located where the Sava tributary joins the Danube.
The name Belgrade means the white city.
Belgrade is home to the largest church of the Orthodox Church.
It is called the Church of St. Sava and is 91 meters long and 81 meters wide.
Outside Niš is a 15th century castle-like monastery called Manasija.
The Iron Gate. Nature and natural resources.
In northern Serbia is a fertile area called Vojvodina.
Fruit trees and vines grow here.
Running through the landscape is the Danube, one of Europe's longest rivers.
At the border with Romania, the Danube, together with its mountainous surroundings, forms the famous Iron Gate.
Here, the two countries have built a large hydroelectric plant together.
In the south, large forests spread out.
There is production of wood products and paper.
Bosnia and Herzegovina. Important cities and places.
Bosnia and Herzegovina was formerly part of Yugoslavia.
Bosnia is home to many Muslims, but also Croats and Serbs.
When Bosnia gained its freedom in 1992, a terrible civil war broke out and many people lost their lives.
In 1995, peace was achieved in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The country's capital is Sarajevo. In 1984, the Winter Olympics were held here.
Sarajevo is a historically interesting city and is now visited by many tourists.
In the city of Mostar there is a famous bridge called the Bridge of Suleiman the Magnificent.
It was destroyed during the Balkan war, but was rebuilt in 2003.
The city of Banja Luka is known for its numerous and beautiful wooden mosques.
Suleiman's bridge in Mostar. Nature and natural resources.
Bosnia and Herzegovina is a truly mountainous country.
Most of the mountainous areas are covered with forest.
The highest peak is called Maglić and is 2,386 meters high.
Along the Sava River and the country's small coastal strip, the soil is more fertile.
They grow plums, figs, tomatoes and tobacco.
Large quantities of lignite and iron ore are mined around the town of Zenica.