The Universe

Think about it ? Is space black?

When people talk about space, they often mean the universe. 

Today, it is believed that the universe was formed about 14 billion years ago,through the Big Bang.

In Swedish, this means 'the big bang'.

At that time, there was an enormous expansion, with everything spreading out in different directions from a single point.

The Big Bang was so powerful that everything is still moving away from the point where it started. 

So the whole universe is still expanding and growing in all directions. 

It can be compared to a balloon blowing up, or a dough rising.

The great void

The universe is almost unimaginably large. 

Scientists have calculated that it contains 100 billion times 100 billion stars. 

Between all these stars are what we call celestial bodies: planets, moons and asteroids. 

But the vast majority of them are voids, where there is not even air. 

This void is called the vacuum, and it makes up the vast majority of the universe.

At the CERN research station in Switzerland, scientists study the smallest particles to learn more about the universe and how it was formed. 

To try to mimic how this might have happened, particles are sent through special tunnels at extremely high speeds. 

The aerial image shows two circular tunnels. In reality, they are 100 meters below the surface. 

The large one is 27 kilometers long.

Is there an end to the universe?

A scientist who specializes in investigating space is called an astronomer. 

It means star expert - the word astro is star in Greek. 

To find out as much as possible about space, astronomers work with many other experts, 

such as mathematicians, physicists and engineers. They take pictures of celestial bodies using telescopes, 

a kind of binoculars, which are either on Earth or sent into space. 

Special telescopes also allow them to record the radiation emitted by some celestial bodies. 

Computers, of course, also play a major role in such research.

They are used, for example, to point telescopes in different directions and to store and analyze all the data collected.

We still don't know whether the universe is infinite or not. 

As far away as scientists have been able to see and investigate so far, it seems to look pretty much the same everywhere. 

So there is no evidence to suggest that the universe has an end.