Life on land

The first life on land was plant life, such as the bulrushes and fern-like plants that grew on the edges of beaches. 
Only when there were plants on land did it become possible for animals to live there. 
But this development took a very long time.

Arthropods were the first animals to live above the water surface. 
These included springtails, scorpions and arachnids. 
As well as being first on land, arthropods were also first in the air as flying insects.

Amphibians

The first animals to crawl around on land looked like something between fish and lizards. 
They were amphibians. They had a backbone and scales on their skin but looked like a lizard. 
With strong legs, they could move quite quickly on land. 
They were very similar to the fish that sometimes crawled on land. 
The fact that they weren't entirely land animals was evident when they went to reproduce. 
Amphibians sought out water to mate.

They laid their eggs in the water because the eggs had no shells and had dried out on land. 
The animals caught and ate cockroaches, dragonflies and fish. 
There was one amphibian that was more than four meters long.
It was similar to the newts found in ponds today, although much larger. 
Up on land, there were also amphibians with muscular hind legs, which allowed them to jump fast and well.

Some of the amphibians had poison glands in their skin as a defense. 
If a predator bit into it, it let go immediately.

Today's sharks are very similar to their ancestors. 
They are also cartilaginous fish and their sharp teeth are part of the skin of the jaw. 
The teeth can be multi-layered, and grow back if they break off. 
The skin of sharks is covered in tiny spines, so although the skin looks smooth, it is rough like sandpaper. 

PADDA. Amphibians still exist today. Toads belong to the amphibians, just like frogs and salamanders.
Toads have poison glands in their backs that prevent predators from biting them. 
But snakes can handle the poison and can eat toads.

Lycophyte fossil. 