Mammals become the most common

65 million years ago, something strange happened: in a short time, all dinosaurs disappeared. 

There are several different theories as to why. 

It could have been due to a change in climate following a meteorite impact or after a period of numerous volcanic eruptions.

At the same time as the dinosaurs, some other animals lived. 

They were small platypus-like animals with fur. They were the first mammals. 

When the dinosaurs died out, they were given more space to live and became more common. 

They are both plants and insects. 

The female took care of her young and had teats on her belly so that the young could suckle.

Today's mammals give birth to live young, but the mammals that first spread across the Earth's surface laid eggs. 

When the eggs hatched, the young crawled to the female and attached themselves to her teats. 

The platypus in Australia still does this. 

Other mammals gave birth to very small and undeveloped young, which after birth crawled into a fold of skin, a pouch, on the mother's belly. 

This is where the teats were and where they were protected.

In the pouch, the babies could grow until they could fend for themselves. 

This is how kangaroos and other marsupials still function today. 

So both platypuses and marsupials are the remains of mammals that lived many millions of years ago.

An ancestral footprint

About 3.5 million years ago, three human-like creatures walked across a riverbed in present-day Tanzania. 

They were two adults and a baby, walking upright on two legs. 

They stopped for a while, and their footprints were left in the mud.

Some time later, a nearby volcano erupted and spewed ash that buried the riverbed.

The footprints were then transformed into fossilized imprints.

This is why we can still see these footprints today, which are probably the oldest surviving traces of human-like creatures. 

Because they walked upright on their hind legs, they could easily see and spot dangers in the tall grass, 

and the arms became free to do anything but walk. 

Then they could dig for edible roots, carry things and signal to each other.

They were our ancestors - the pre-humans.

This is a model of a pre-human that lived in Africa three million years ago. 

Finds made in Ethiopia have been used to work out what she might have looked like. 
