P 50

Welcome to Stonehenge. We hope you enjoy your visit. 
欢迎来到巨石柱。希望您玩得愉快。

Please remember to look after the environment: take your rubbish with you and respect the wildlife.
请记得保护环境：随身携带垃圾，尊重野生动物。

If you have any questions our members of staff will be glad to help you.
如果您有任何问题，我们的工作人员将很乐意为您提供帮助。

What is Stonehenge? Stonehenge is one of Great Britain's most famous and mysterious monuments. 
巨石柱是什么？巨石阵是英国最著名、最神秘的古迹之一。

The first part of this ancient circle of stones was built over 5,000 years ago, but no one really knows why the stones are there. 
这个古老石圈的第一部分建于 5000 多年前，但没有人真正知道这些石头为什么会在那里。

Some scientists believe it was a temple for druids, while others think that people went there to get healed.
一些科学家认为它是凯尔特牧师的神庙，另一些人则认为人们去那里是为了治病。

Was Stonehenge a kind of hospital, then?
那么巨石柱是一座医院吗？

Not exactly. Archaeologists have found human skeletons near Stonehenge. 
不完全是。考古学家在巨石柱附近发现了人类骸骨。

When they studied the bones, they discovered that these people died of serious illnesses or injuries. 
当他们研究这些骸骨时，发现这些人死于重病或重伤。

Scientists think that they travelled to Stonehenge because they thought that the stones would cure them.
科学家们认为，他们之所以来到巨石柱，是因为他们认为这些石头可以治好他们的病。

Where is Stonehenge? It is in the south of England, in an area called Salisbury Plain. 
巨石柱在哪里？巨石阵位于英格兰南部，在一个叫做 Salisbury 平原的地区。

A few miles away is the historic city of Salisbury.
几英里外就是历史名城 Salisbury。

environment		miljö				环境

rubbish			skräp				垃圾

respect			respektera, ta hänsyn till	尊重

wildlife		djurlivet			野生动物

member of staff		personal			工作人员

most famous		mest berömd			最著名

mysterious		mystisk, gåtfull		神秘莫测

ancient			forntida, gammal		古代，古老的

circle			ring, cirkel			圆环，圆圈

was built		byggdes				建成

scientist		forskare, vetenskapsman		研究员、科学家	

believe			tro				认为

temple			tempel, helgedom		神庙，圣殿

druid			keltisk präst			凯尔特牧师

get healed		bli botad			疗伤，康复

hospital		sjukhus				医院

archaeologist		arkeolog			考古学家

human skeleton		människoskelett			人体骷髅

bone			benknota			骨骼

discover		upptäcka			发现

died of			dog av				死于，死因

cure			bota				治疗

area			område				地区

plain			slätt, jämn mark		平原

historic		historisk			历史性

P 51

How do I get there?
如何前往？

You can, of course, come by car, and there is a visitors' car park next to the site. 
您当然可以开车前往，遗址旁边就有一个游客停车场。

A better alternative for the environment is to take a train to Salisbury. 
为了保护环境，一个更好的选择是乘坐火车前往 Salisbury。

From there you can either catch a tour bus or hire a bike from the local cycle centre near Market Square. 
从那里您可以搭乘旅游巴士，或者在集市广场附近的自行车中心租一辆自行车。

Even better is to walk from Salisbury, but remember to wear walking boots, and take a rain jacket with you.
更好的办法是从 Salisbury 步行前往，但要记得穿上步行靴并带上雨衣。

What else is there to see?
还有哪些景点？

Salisbury is worth a visit. Its beautiful cathedral has the highest spire in the United Kingdom. 
Salisbury 值得一游。它美丽的大教堂拥有英国最高的尖塔。

We also recommend that you take time to see Woodhenge, another monument two miles north of Stonehenge. 
我们还建议您花点时间去看看 Woodhenge ，这是巨石阵以北两英里处的另一座纪念碑。

The landscape around Stonehenge offers plenty of nature and wildlife, 
巨石阵周围有许多自然景观和野生动物、 

so spend some time away from the crowd and explore the beautiful countryside and peaceful villages.
因此，请花些时间远离人群，探索美丽的乡村和宁静的村庄。

Greetings from Salisbury.
来自 Salisbury 的问候

visitor			besökare		游客

better, good		bättre, bra		更好，好

alternative		alternativ		其他选择

either...or		antingen...eller	要么...要么

tour bus		rundtursbuss		旅游巴士

hire			hyra			租用

walking boot		vandringskänga		步行靴

cathedral		katedral		大教堂

the highest		högsta			最高的

spire			tornspira		尖塔

recommend		rekommendera		推荐

landscape		landskap, natur		风景、景观、自然

offer			erbjuda			提议

plenty of		massor av		很多

crowd			folkträngsel		人群, 拥挤

explore			utforska		探索

village			by			村庄
