Polar regions and tundra
In the Arctic and Antarctic, which are closest to the poles, it is cold all year round.
Large parts of the polar regions are covered with snow and ice.
A similar climate is also found in areas with high mountains in other places.
It is a tough climate for all living things.
The few plants that survive the polar climate are some mosses.
The animals that live there find their food in the seas.
The land near the ice-covered areas is called tundra.
The climate here is cold, but during the short summer it is snow-free.
There are more plants and animals here than in the polar regions, but they still live a tough life.
Adapt to the environment
To avoid freezing, animals' fur and feathers can become much thicker in winter.
Many animals, like polar bears, arctic foxes, and hares, have white fur.
The hairs are hollow and contain air, which is a good insulator.
Seal pups are born on the ice floes and have white color as camouflage.
As they grow older and start swimming in the sea, their fur changes color and becomes gray.
Winter birds fluff up, and their "down jackets" are perfect insulation.
They eat lots of food and gain a fat reserve that warms both as insulation and when burned.
It is important not to lose heat unnecessarily.
Another way to escape winter is to move south, as migrating birds do.
All living things contain a lot of water.
When water freezes into ice, it expands.
In order to prevent the water in the plants from bursting when it gets cold, sugar solution is formed in the cells.
Sugar solution does not freeze into ice as easily as plain water.
One can see that some buds are completely sticky with sugar solution.
Find food
Cold is not the only reason birds migrate.
Another reason is the lack of food.
Birds that live on insects and grass must migrate.
The short winter days can make it difficult for other birds to find enough food.
Reindeer migrate over large areas to find trees with lichens.
Where the snow cover is thin, they can kick through to find lichens and shrubs.
Brown bears insulate their dens with twigs and moss for the winter.
They also eat a lot and become really fat to avoid starving.
During hibernation, their body temperature is stable, but they save energy by having a slow heartbeat and slower breathing.
Polar bears have small ears to prevent heat loss.
Having a large body can also be energy-saving.
There is a smaller surface area relative to body volume, making it easier to retain heat.
Plants may also have fur.
The willow's flower buds are hairy to withstand the cold spring nights.