To cope with the cold, the ptarmigan has down covering its legs and feet.
Getting rid of enemies
The white fur of the mountain hare is good camouflage in the snow.
The ptarmigans also get white plumage in winter.
The black and white colors of the penguins work as camouflage when they swim in the sea to catch fish.
The white belly is as bright as the surface of the water when viewed from below, making it difficult for seals to see.
Forming large flocks is a way to confuse hunting enemies.
It can be shoals of fish or flocks of penguins and geese.
When the Arctic geese are migrating, they gather in large flocks.
There can be hundreds of thousands in a flock.
One might think that large flocks would instead make it easier for birds of prey because they are so visible.
But the number of birds flying around makes it difficult for the bird of prey to concentrate and choose which bird to attack.
There are several small animals that dig tunnels and hide in the snow, such as lemmings in our mountains and marmots in the Alps.
The snow is both a good hiding place and protection from cold and strong winds.
Find a partner
The elephant seal goes ashore during the mating season.
On overcrowded beaches, the largest males fight for a harem with hundreds of females.
The males are huge and weigh up to three tons.
After the fight, the males are wounded and scarred by bite marks.
The musk ox lives in herds on the tundra.
During the mating season, the bulls gather to determine who gets to mate.
They first display their horns and threaten each other with deep roars.
Those who do not give up continue the fight by running at high speed towards each other and butting their foreheads.
There are powerful blows and the one who loses the fight has to leave.
Arctic wolves also live in packs, but only one pair in the pack has pups.
It is the alpha female and the alpha male.
Once a female and a male have formed a pair, they stay together until one of them dies.
Penguins in Antarctica stand still on the ice and incubate their egg.
It is many degrees below zero and the egg depends on the patient incubation of the parents to develop.
The penguin lays the egg on its feet and hides it under the warm down on its belly.