The cactus has several ways to withstand drought.
It lacks leaves that would otherwise evaporate water.
It has a swollen stem that can store water.
It has spines that not only protect against grazing animals but also collect dew at night.
Desert fox hunting at dusk.
Desert
A large part of the Earth's land areas are desert.
Some deserts are barren areas of rock and stone, while other deserts consist of sand dunes.
In sandy deserts, the weather is often clear.
The sun bakes mercilessly and no clouds hinder the sun's hot rays.
But there is also nothing that prevents the heat from radiating out at night.
Therefore, there are large temperature differences between day and night in the desert – plus 50 degrees during the day and freezing at night.
It can rain in the desert, but for many years the rain can completely fail to appear.
It's tough conditions, but there is actually life in the desert.
Adapt to the environment
All life needs water.
Desert plants and animals have different solutions to avoid drying out.
They can be 'opposers' or 'avoiders'.
In the deserts of North and South America grow cacti, and in the deserts of Africa various euphorbias grow.
Cacti and euphorbias resemble each other but are not related.
These desert plants are among the 'opposers' and have adapted to the climate.
They are specialists in retaining water.
They have thick stems and leaves that can store water.
Some can also collect water in stiff, gutter-shaped leaves
The cactus has no leaves at all, which reduces evaporation.
All plants need sunshine, but in the desert, sunshine is also a threat.
The drought can cause plants to shrivel, and many survive only as seeds.
There are seeds that can lie for many years before they get a chance to sprout.
Those plants are the "avoiders".
After a life-giving rain, the desert blooms.
At that time, many insects hatch that have survived the drought as eggs or pupae.
Animals in the desert are often nocturnal to avoid the intense heat of the day.
Many dig deep tunnels and burrows in the sand.
The desert fox sleeps in its den all day.
It has large ears to fan with to cool itself.
Some snakes, lizards, and insects move between shade and sun during the day to regulate their body temperature.
The bearded dragon is a lizard that lives in the desert.
Like all lizards, it is cold-blooded and utilizes the different temperatures throughout the day.
To avoid burning its feet in the hot sand, it can stand and lift its feet alternately.
Snakes in the desert can close their nostrils to avoid getting sand in them.