Finding food and water to drink.
Honey ants, which live in some deserts, feed mainly on flower nectar.
But as the desert only has flowers for a very short period, they have to take the opportunity to replenish their stocks for the long dry season.
They have developed a very peculiar way to store nectar.
Some of the ants in the colony may be living “honey pots.”
Even as new hatchlings, while their skin is soft, they are fed by other ants until they become like bloated balls.
They are so thick and swollen that they cannot move and hang motionless in the ceiling of the ant nest.
When the dry season comes, the other ants can go to the "honey pots" and get food.
The desert gerbil also has a clever way to survive in the desert.
It belongs to the “avoiders” and is up at night.
It gets its water from its food, but to save water, its urine is highly concentrated.
Since it's up at night, it doesn't sweat either.
During the day it lies down in its burrow where it keeps its seed supply.
When it sleeps, it evaporates water just like all living things.
But the gerbil has made sure to seal the entrance to the burrow.
Therefore, the moisture stays and is absorbed by the dry seeds.
Then it's just for the gerbil to eat its seeds and get back moisture.
Honey ants.
Desert gerbil.
The antelope ground squirrel is found in the warm deserts of California and tolerates heat better than any other mammal.
It can withstand body temperatures of over 40 degrees.
It can be out in the daytime when the sun is relentlessly blazing, because it uses its tail as a sun parasol.
The welwitschia is a strange plant in the Kalahari Desert in Africa.
With its long, wavy leaves, it captures the night's dewdrops.
The leaves continuously grow from the base and wither at the tip.
The dromedary has a substantial fat reserve in its hump.
With it, it can survive for several weeks.
When fat is burned in the body, a little water is additionally produced.
Completely without liquid, the dromedary can survive for about a week.
Then it can drink a hundred liters in ten minutes.