Fertilization inside the body
When aquatic animals are going to reproduce, they can release gametes into the water, like the pike.
Some gametes always meet.
Terrestrial animals cannot do the same way.
Gametes can only survive in moist environments.
Their gametes must therefore meet inside a body for fertilization to occur.
The male then inserts his genital organ, the penis, into the female's genital organ, the vagina.
Inside the vagina, he releases his seminal fluid with a large number of sperm.
Now a race begins for the sperm.
The sperm that first reaches the egg, which is inside the female, fertilizes it.
All other sperm die.
The fertilized egg divides repeatedly and forms a small cell mass, an embryo.
This is the beginning of a fetus.
The birds
Birds have a cloaca, a common opening for the urethra, intestine, and reproductive organs.
It is the same for females and males.
When birds mate, they press their cloacas together so that the male's sperm can enter the female.
In birds, there is an internal fertilization, a fertilization inside the body, but then the female lays one or more eggs with a protective shell.
In the egg, the young develop outside the mother's body.
To keep the egg at the right temperature, birds incubate their eggs.
They turn and move the eggs so that the entire egg stays warm.
Everything the embryo needs is in the egg, except for oxygen.
Despite the hard eggshell, there are lots of tiny pores where oxygen can pass through.
The marsupial develops in the pouch
When a female kangaroo is in heat, ready for mating, she allows the male to mate with her.
A month after mating, the young is born, but it is still a fetus.
Only the young's forelimbs are well developed, and with their help, the young crawls from the vaginal opening to the mother's pouch, a fold of skin on the abdomen.
In the pouch, the young attaches itself to a nipple.
It stays there for about eight months before it is fully developed.
The mammalian young suckle
In mammals, such as the hedgehog, the fetus is fully formed inside the womb.
The young suckle, drink milk from the mother, when they are born.
They are called "mammals" because the word "dägg" means to suckle.
When the male hedgehog is courting the female for mating, he repeatedly runs around the female and tries to mate with her.
Every time he gets too close, she hisses at him.
When the female wants to mate, she lets the male through.