Fetal development.
Initially, the fertilized egg appears as a small cluster of cells.
It is called the embryo.
The fetus then develops quickly.
It receives oxygen and nutrients via blood vessels in the umbilical cord, which come from the placenta.
The placenta, in turn, receives oxygen and nutrients from the mother's blood.
The fetus is protected inside a 'bag' called the amniotic sac.
It is filled with amniotic fluid, in which the fetus floats around.
Already at four weeks old, the fetus has a beating heart.
After about 40 weeks, all organs are fully developed, and it is time for the child to be born.
The small sperm try to enter the egg.
It is only the one that comes first that the egg lets in.
Other ways to have children.
Sometimes it happens that a couple cannot conceive and have children for some reason.
It may be because the eggs or sperm function poorly, or they are in a homosexual relationship.
If they still want to become parents, there are different ways to get help, and if necessary, eggs or sperm from someone else can be used.
One way is insemination.
Sperm is then introduced with the help of a tube into the woman's fallopian tubes.
Another way is in vitro fertilization.
This involves removing the woman's eggs and fertilizing them with sperm.
Since fertilization does not occur in the body but in a laboratory, it is called in vitro fertilization.
The fertilized egg is then placed back into the woman's body.
Adoption is another way to become a parent.
It means becoming a parent to a child you are not a biological parent to.
The little fish PIPEFISH does not act like many other fish, which leave the eggs to fend for themselves.
The female lays the eggs in a pouch on the male's belly.
He then takes care of the eggs until they hatch, ensuring they receive nutrition and are well protected.
The CUCKOO is a bird that does not build its own nest.
Instead, it lays eggs in other birds' nests.
It tricks other birds into taking care of the cuckoo chick, which they believe is theirs.
A cuckoo chick is larger than many other chicks and sometimes pushes the other chicks out of the nest.
The seal pup is called a kut.
It is born on ice floes at sea, and to avoid detection it is as white as the snow and ice around it.
The fur color changes to gray as it grows and starts swimming in the sea.
The seal is a mammal and the pups nurse.