EXAMPLE TASK



Sample Preventing risks (injury prevention)



Year 6



Below is a description of a brand new sport/game. 



Based on the text and your own knowledge, you must answer the questions below. 



You write your answers on the attached striped paper.



Eternity relay race”



In this game there are 2 teams. 



Each team starts on the opposite side from each other on the designated field (in this case in each corner of a large gymnasium). 



The teacher has marked with cones a large area to run around. 



One person at a time from each team runs around the area, 



when they have run around the whole area, they take turns with the next person in their team. 



A team wins when a person from one team catches up with a person from the other team and manages to overtake them.



Tasks



1. describe the risks involved in endurance racing and describe the rules needed to reduce the risk of injury. 



Explain how your rules reduce the risk of injury.



Example 1.



It is easy to slip, so it is important to wear shoes or be barefoot.



An important rule is that no one stands in the way of those running, otherwise you may be disqualified.



Example 2.



As runners will be running as fast as they can, there are some risks involved. 



These can be minimized with a few rules.



Rules: You must change at the designated place and the team must queue properly without being in the way of the runners. 



This is to avoid collisions that could lead to various injuries. 



Injuries that can occur in the event of a collision are many, but for example, you can be hit so that you get a thighbone or a sore muscle (bruise). 



It is also important that when you run that you run on the designated course. 



Taking a shortcut is cheating and this can lead to teams falling out with each other and a bad atmosphere.



Risks (in addition to the risks mentioned under the rules): 



As it is important to run as fast as you can and at the same time turn in the corners of the track, there is a risk of slipping. 



If you slip badly, you lose speed but above all you can hurt yourself. 



For example, you can sprain your foot or slip into something on the side of the track. 



This risk can be minimized by everyone wearing proper indoor shoes, 



or if you don't have shoes, running barefoot, as bare feet have a better grip on the floor than socks.



2. Describe as accurately as you can a warm-up suitable for the endurance relay described above.



Remember to justify your choices. Why, how, for how long etc about the warm-up.



Example 1



It is important to warm up your legs for running. It is also important to stretch beforehand. 



You run until you feel warm.



Example 2



As the game is about running as fast as you can, it is especially important to warm up your legs properly. 



This is to get the heart rate and heat up in the body. 



This reduces the risk of injury as the muscles “become softer”. 



For example, you can compare the muscles here with a wooden twig you want to break off. 



If the twig is dry (unheated) it is easier to break off compared to a moist (heated) one.



The warm-up should last between 5-15 minutes. 



Start with a slow jog around the hall and then gradually speed up. 



The jog can include exercises such as high knees, buttock heels, etc, 



jumping sideways to warm up as many muscles as possible properly. 



It's important to start warming up “slowly” then increase the speed as your body warms up. 



I would also make sure to move your upper body a bit so that it is not too stiff. 



Towards the end of the warm-up, it's good to try to run as fast as you can, 



then you can feel if there is any part of the body that feels a little stiff and then I can try to warm up that part a little extra.



When the running warm-up is done, it can be good to gently stretch the largest muscles on the legs.