Why are there rules in different sports?



All sports have different rules that aim to make the match/competition work in the way 



intended (to keep the game flowing and in a planned rhythm) and to prevent possible injuries



and thus protect the athletes.



Rules of the game



All sports have certain rules and frameworks that describe the sport and allow all athletes or teams to compete on a level playing field. 



Without these rules, sport would not exist or be possible.



Examples of rules of the game: in football, for example, there are rules that determine what the game is about (scoring more goals than the opponent), 



how big the pitch should be (so that the pitch doesn't get too big) 



how to move the football (without this rule, you could pick up the ball with your hands and run away).



Injury prevention rules



Injury prevention rules aim to protect athletes in sport from suffering injuries, both physical and psychological. 



These rules tell you how to behave on the field of play (what you can and cannot say) and what types of physical contact are allowed (for example, can you be tackled?).



Examples of injury prevention rules: In football, you can be warned or sent off if you use language, 



say stupid things to the referee, opponents or teammates. 



If you illegally tackle/fall on an opponent, the opposing team is awarded a free kick 



and you may be cautioned or sent off if the referee considers your action to be foul 



and you and your team need to be penalized more severely than the opponents only getting a free kick.



Developments



As sports evolve with everything from new equipment to new surfaces etc, so do the rules. 



A sport today is not played with the same equipment or in the same way as it was 50 years ago. 



As sports evolve and innovate, so do the rules. 



The rules are renewed because new risks arise, 



so that sport remains equal for all competitors, and so that sport maintains a rhythm that suits both competitors and spectators.