Warmup



Why should you warm up?



Before any form of physical activity, we need to warm up our bodies.



We do this to raise the heart rate and increase warmth and mobility in the body, thereby reducing the risk of acute injuries.



A distinction is made between acute and repetitive strain injuries. 



An acute injury occurs at one time. 



For example, an external force (a kick to the knee) or when a movement goes wrong. 



A repetitive strain injury occurs when a movement is performed incorrectly over a long period of time due to incorrect technique, wrong type of footwear, etc.



When you warm up, your body temperature increases, which is why you start to sweat, and your muscles and joints become “softer” and can withstand more strain. 



The risk of muscle strains and ankle sprains is reduced.



The warm-up also helps to get you more concentrated, motivated and better mentally prepared for the activity you are about to perform. 



Which also helps to reduce the risk of injury.



How should you warm up?



Warming up needs to last at least 5 minutes, preferably 10-15 minutes, 



with movements that increase the heart rate and thus the blood flow, the circulation, in the body. 



Working with your hands above heart level will speed up the warm-up. 



Examples of movements to increase circulation include: walking, jogging, cycling or jumping rope.



The warm-up should also include stretching exercises. 



When you stretch, the muscle is made to work in a gentle rocking motion where its origin (beginning) and attachment (end) are gently and carefully brought closer and further apart, which helps to increase blood flow in the muscle. 



This in turn increases the warmth and mobility of the muscle, thereby reducing the risk of injury.



After the initial warm-up, which can be quite similar regardless of the physical activity, you should move on to movements that specifically warm up the parts of the body that are particularly vulnerable in your particular physical activity. 



In addition, it is good to think about whether you have/had injuries or exercise pain and do movements that your body needs.



You should start with slow, large movements for large muscle groups and then increase the tempo of the movements and reduce to smaller movements for smaller muscle groups. 



Remember that the movements should be performed with full range of motion so that the whole joint is warmed up.



How do you know when you have finished your warm-up? 



To know that you have warmed up properly and are prepared for your physical activity, you need to do your warm-up program properly and not skip anything or cheat in its execution. 



Over time, you will learn to recognize the signals from your body for when you are ready. 



They can be, for example, increased breathing (that you are breathing faster), that your heart rate has increased and that you have started to sweat easily. 



Different individuals may require different amounts of warm-up and the same individual may require different amounts of warm-up depending on their physical activity and/or daily form.



For any physical activity, it is important to be dressed for the activity in question so that you have full freedom of movement. 



It is also good to be dressed in several layers of clothing so that you can take off after you get warm and easily put on again if you get stuck and risk getting cold again.