Salt is also called sodium chloride.
It is a chemical compound composed of sodium (Na) and chlorine (Cl).
Chemical compounds
A chemical compound is a substance composed of different types of atoms.
Some examples of chemical compounds are water (hydrogen and oxygen), carbon dioxide (carbon and oxygen), sugar (carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen), and rust (iron and oxygen).
From all the elements that exist, an infinite number of chemical compounds can be formed.
A chemical compound can have completely different properties than the elements it is composed of.
Water is a chemical compound of two gases: oxygen and hydrogen.
But water is liquid.
Carbon dioxide is a chemical compound of carbon and oxygen.
Carbon is a black, solid substance, and oxygen is a gas.
Together, they become a gas.
Sugar is a compound of oxygen, hydrogen, and carbon.
Oxygen and hydrogen are gases.
Carbon is black, solid, and insoluble in water.
Sugar, on the other hand, is white, solid, and soluble in water.
Rust is a compound of iron and oxygen.
Iron is a black, hard, and solid metal, and oxygen is a gas.
But rust is brown, porous, and solid.
Then and now
As early as over 2,000 years ago, learned men in Greece tried to explain how substances were structured.
They studied the substances around them and pondered how everything was connected.
When they looked at a burning fire, they came up with an explanation.
The wood must contain four different substances, they thought.
The flames were fire, the smoke was air, the ashes were earth, and the fourth was water since drops formed from the smoke.
They thought everything was made up of these four elements: fire, air, earth, and water.
This concept survived for almost 2,000 years.
In the 1600s, scientists discovered that there were more building blocks.
At the beginning of the 1800s, the concept of atoms began to be used.
Since then, research has advanced, and our understanding of atomic structure continues to grow.
Chemical symbols
Substances have different names in different languages.
But to help scientists understand each other more easily, every element has a chemical name and a chemical symbol, just like when Carl Linnaeus created Latin names for plants and animals.
The chemical symbols are abbreviations of the Latin or Greek names of the elements.
In Latin, iron is called ferrum and is written as Fe.
Carbon is called carbo and is written as C.
The chemical name of a compound also includes the number of atoms in each molecule.
Water is written as H₂O.
This means a water molecule consists of 2 hydrogen atoms (H) and 1 oxygen atom (O).
Hydrogen is called hydrogen, and oxygen is called oxygen.
It was the Swedish chemist Jakob Berzelius who introduced the chemical symbols in the 1800s.