Finding food
There are many different insects and other small creatures in a deciduous forest, and they are food for birds and bats.
Deer and roe deer eat leaves and grass, but because it is hard-to-digest food, they are ruminants.
Ruminants have special stomachs and chew the food several times.
Both mice and squirrels eat nuts and have special incisors to gnaw on the nutritious inside of the shell.
Different spiders have different ways of catching their prey.
Some spin webs that catch flies and other small creatures.
Others sit and wait to jump on, for example, an ant passing by.
In order not to be seen, they are camouflage colored.
Avoid enemies
camouflage coloration is a good way to avoid enemies.
Many larvae, which lack protective shells, resemble small twigs on bushes and are difficult to detect.
Some larvae can instead make a quick and terrifying movement to scare off predators.
The peacock eye is a butterfly.
It is named so because it has eye-like spots on the wings.
When it spreads its wings, the attacker believes there are angry eyes on a large animal staring at it.
The bird flees, and the butterfly has survived this time.
The hedgehog has long spines instead to avoid being eaten.
Even plants have defenses against their enemies.
They can have thorns to avoid being bitten off, such as rose bushes, sloe, and thistles.
Other plants can instead be poisonous or taste bad.
European pied flycatcher. The male feeds the female with insects while she is incubating.
Territory
Many small birds live in the deciduous forest.
In spring, you can hear fantastic concerts from nightingales, flycatchers, and many others.
Only the males are singing.
It’s a way to attract females but also a way to tell other males: "This is my territory; you can't come here."
The deer has a gland near the eye that secretes a strongly scented substance.
The male deer rubs the gland on trees and bushes to mark his territory for other males: that here is where it’s at and it is his area.
Cooperate
Plants cannot move and must be helped with pollination.
Colorful flowers with sweet nectar attract butterflies.
When the butterfly sucks in nectar, pollen sticks to it, which it takes with it to the next flower.