Arrowhead frog in orchid.
Avoid enemies
A good way to avoid enemies is to take shelter in the dark.
Many of the rainforest animals are awake at night and then go out hunting for food.
The poison dart frog has another way to survive enemies: a very dangerous poison in its sticky skin.
To warn potential enemies, it has a brightly shining color.
Other frogs instead have a lot of skin between their toes and can throw themselves into the air to escape enemies.
By spreading out the skin, they can glide between branches.
Flying snake spreads its ribs so that the body becomes completely flat and then it can also glide between the trees.
It can glide fifty meters and escape hungry birds of prey.
Butterflies can look like a leaf to avoid detection.
Defend their young
In the rainforests, there are many different bats.
A baby bat must cling to its mother for eight weeks before it can fly on its own.
The hornbill lays its eggs in a hollow stem.
To protect the eggs, the male walls up the nest where the female incubates.
There is only one small gap, and through it, he feeds her until the young are big enough.
Then it becomes so cramped that the female breaks out.
Then both help to get food for the young.
Live on others
To get more light, some plants grow high among the tree branches.
Epiphytes are the plants that grow on other plants.
Orchids and vines are epiphytes.
If there are too many epiphytes on a branch, it can become so heavy that the branch breaks.
Some tree species shed their bark frequently to get rid of anything growing on them.
The tick is a small mite that sucks blood from birds and mammals.
It bites with its jaws and drills its head a bit into the skin.
It's the female that sucks blood to get nutrition for her eggs.
The tick is therefore a parasite: it takes nutrition from its host.
The leech is a bloodsucking parasite.
It has jaws that it uses to saw through the skin of its victim.
When it has bitten, it injects a substance that prevents the blood from clotting and keeps flowing.