Sweat
During puberty, hormones in your body can make you sweat more.
It varies greatly how much one sweats.
Some only sweat when exerting their body and others when they become nervous or stressed.
Sweating is the body's way of maintaining the right temperature, sweat drops on the skin cool the body.
The sweat drops themselves are mostly water and almost odorless.
But when they stay on the skin, sweat drops can mix with bacteria and start to smell.
Sometimes the smell is strong, like when feet have been enclosed in shoes for a long time.
Then it can smell a lot of foot sweat and you may need to wash or air your feet.
Breasts
Girls' breasts develop during puberty.
Fat tissue stored around the mammary glands enlarges the breasts.
They can become sore and very sensitive as they grow.
Breasts can also grow unevenly, one can grow before the other.
In addition to breast growth, the body changes shape.
Fat is also stored in the subcutaneous layer, giving rounder shapes and wider hips.
period
At some point during puberty, girls get their first menstruation, period.
Some get it early, and others may have to wait longer.
At the beginning, the period is often irregular, but about every 28 days an egg is released from one of the ovaries.
The egg is picked up by the fallopian tubes, where tiny hairs (cilia) slowly move it down to the uterus.
The uterus is the size of a pear and hollow.
Inside, there is a blood-rich mucous membrane.
If the egg is not fertilized, the mucous membrane is not needed.
Then it detaches and becomes a menstrual bleed.
After menstruation, a new mucous membrane begins to form, ready to receive an egg.
The amount of bleeding during menstruation varies.
Some have very little bleeding for a few days, while others have more and for a whole week.
Although it can sometimes come quickly and look like a lot, it is not a large amount of blood.
When you have started menstruating, your body is biologically ready to have children.
Menstruation occurs every month until between the ages of 45 and 55, when it stops.
Protection such as pads or tampons are used to soak up the blood.