Children's protection
In the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the UN (United Nations) describes the rights of children in the world.
Most countries have signed on to work on protecting children.
Sweden is one of the countries that has signed the Convention on the Rights of the Child.
But we also have our own laws and rules that are meant to protect children.
Violence: Adults are not allowed to hit children.
This applies to parents and everyone else.
In the past, people were allowed to hit children to discipline them.
Then it was also allowed in schools to hit children.
Alcohol and tobacco: To drink alcohol or smoke and use snuff, one must be 18 years old.
The age limit to buy alcohol oneself is 20 years.
This is because using alcohol and tobacco when you are young and still growing is particularly harmful and dangerous for your body.
Marriage: Before the age of 18, you cannot get married.
It is forbidden to marry off children.
Children become adults and decide for themselves who to marry, whether to marry at all and, if so, when.
Sexual acts: There is a Swedish law that says you cannot have sex or intercourse with someone who is under 15 years old.
This law is to protect children so that no one can force children to have sex.
Sexual orientation: There is a law to protect children from discrimination based on sexual orientation.
It means that one has the right to fall in love and love whomever one wants, regardless of gender.
strange to play as you did before.
One can fall in love with a person of the same gender.
There are many ways to show that you like each other.
You can hang out together, hold hands, hug and kiss or just do things together.
It is important never to do anything you don't want to or don't feel ready for.
We also need to listen to each other, no one should be forced to do something they don't want to.
We are all different and have the right to be and feel different.
Identity
Identity means how you perceive yourself and what opinions, interests, and feelings you have.
Your identity is shaped throughout your life by everything around you — family, friends, and society.
Some things you can influence, but not all.
Gender identity means the gender you feel you are.
It's not about what body you have, but what gender you feel you belong to.
THE MALE BIRDS OF PARADISE gather in groups when they want to impress a female.
When the female has chosen a partner, they dance with each other.
The male hangs upside down and sways his beautiful tail feathers while the female sneaks around.
During the mating period, the male ibexes fight each other.
The males search for a flock of females and then fight over who gets to mate with them.
To be able to participate in the fight, the male must have grown large and strong.
THE DRAGON FIN is a small freshwater fish.
The males have a small rod-like flag on their fin.
It looks the same as the food the females eat.
The male waves his flag in front of the female to attract her for the chance to fertilize her eggs.