Salt is also called sodium chloride.  
It is a chemical compound consisting of sodium (Na) and chlorine (Cl).  
Then AND NOW  
Already more than 2,000 years ago, there were learned men in Greece who tried to explain how substances were constructed.  
They studied the substances around them and pondered how everything was connected.  
When they looked at a burning fire, they came up with an explanation.  
The wood must contain four different substances, they thought.  
The flames were fire, the smoke was air, the ash was earth, and the fourth was water,  
because droplets form from the smoke.  
They thought that everything was made up of these four elements: fire, air, earth, and water.  
This idea lived on for almost 2,000 years.  
In the 1600s, scientists determined that there were more building blocks.  
In the early 1800s, the concept of atoms began to be used.  
Since then, research has progressed, and more knowledge about the structure of atoms is continually gained.  
Chemical Compounds  
A chemical compound is a substance consisting of different kinds of atoms.  
Some examples of chemical compounds are water (hydrogen and oxygen),  
carbon dioxide (carbon and oxygen), sugar (carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen), and rust (iron and oxygen).  
From all the elements that exist, infinitely many chemical compounds can be formed.  
A chemical compound can have completely different properties than the elements it is made of:  
Water is a chemical compound of two gases: oxygen and hydrogen. But water is liquid.  
Carbon dioxide is a chemical compound of carbon and oxygen. Carbon is a black, solid substance, and oxygen is a gas. Together they become a gas.  
Sugar is a compound of oxygen, hydrogen, and carbon. Oxygen and hydrogen are gases.  
Carbon is black, solid, and insoluble in water. Sugar, on the other hand, is white, solid, and soluble in water.  
Rust is a compound of iron and oxygen.  
Iron is a black, hard, and solid metal, and oxygen is a gas.  
But rust is brown, porous, and solid.  
Chemical Symbols  
Substances have different names in different languages.  
But to make it easier for scientists to understand each other, each element has a chemical name and a chemical symbol,  
just like when Carl von Linné created Latin names for plants and animals.  
The chemical symbols are abbreviations of the Latin or Greek names of the elements.  
In Latin, iron is called ferrum and is written as Fe. Carbon is called carbo and is written as C.  
In the chemical symbol of a compound, the number of atoms in each molecule is also included.  
Water is written as H2O. This means that a water molecule consists of 2 hydrogen atoms (H) and 1 oxygen atom (O).  
Hydrogen is called hydrogen and oxygen is called oxygen.  
It was the Swedish chemist Jakob Berzelius who introduced the chemical symbols in the 1800s.  
