Minerals  
Chemical compounds in the bedrock are called minerals.  
There are about 3000 different minerals.  
All stones and mountains are made up of minerals.  
In a stone of the rock type granite, you see spots and fields in different colors.  
Each such spot is a specific mineral.  
The pink and white spots are feldspar, which is one of the most common minerals.  
Quartz is a white or transparent mineral.  
Usually, several minerals are included in a rock, just like in granite.  
But a rock can also consist of a single mineral.  
The rock limestone consists entirely of the mineral calcite, which has formed from fossil shells, such as coral animals.  
A really old and hard limestone is marble.  
Ores  
The most important minerals for humans are those that contain a lot of metal.  
Such minerals are called ores.  
Extracting metals from the earth's crust is called mining ore.  
Aluminum and iron are the two metals that are most abundant in the earth's crust.  
Both are combined with oxygen.  
Other metals in the earth's crust are combined with the element sulfur instead of oxygen.  
Examples of such metals are copper, zinc, and lead.  
The minerals chalcopyrite, sphalerite, and galena contain sulfur.  
Metals have been very important to humans for a long time.  
We have made tools, weapons, coins, and ornaments from gold, silver, copper, iron, zinc, and tin for thousands of years.  
There are pictures from the time of the pharaohs more than 3000 years ago showing that iron ore was extracted in mines.  
Amethyst is a type of rock crystal used in jewelry.  
It is iron that gives the beautiful purple color.  
Feldspar is found in most stones you find.  
The color can be red or white.  
Feldspar contains the elements aluminum, silicon, and oxygen.  
Metals  
Metals are elements that conduct electricity and heat.  
They are shiny and hard but easy to shape and process.  
Iron is found in various compounds in the bedrock.  
Magnetite is the iron mineral that contains the most iron.  
The stone is valuable because steel can be produced from it.  
Rock crystal is pure, glass-clear quartz made up of the elements silicon and oxygen.  
In jewelry stones of rock crystal, metals can also be included, and then the crystal becomes colored.  
