The Countess's iron

Some mills were run by women.
The noblewoman Ebba Brahe was one of them. 
Her iron was known to be of the highest quality and was called Countess's iron. 
When Ebba once produced more iron than she was allowed to, she wrote in a letter: 
If I am fined, I will pay, but then I will make as much iron as I want.

Cannons
The Swedes mostly used bronze cannons in their wars.
They were more expensive than iron cannons but easier to cast, held better and could be made smaller and lighter.

Walloons and cannons

Gustav II Adolf needed money and cannons for the war. 
He got a lot of money from taxes on farmers, but also by selling copper and iron from Sweden's mines abroad. 
Most of the copper came from the Falu mine in Dalarna. 
Over a thousand people worked there in the mid-17th century. 
They produced two-thirds of all the copper in the world. 
Without that copper, Sweden could not have become a great power.
Sweden was also the country that sold the most iron and iron cannons in Europe. 
This was partly because Sweden had rich mines, and partly because the Swedes enlisted the help of skilled immigrants at the ironworks where the iron was produced.

Louis de Geer and the Walloons
The wealthy businessman Louis de Geer was born in Belgium but founded several ironworks and gunsmiths in Sweden. 
Many skilled workers were needed there. 
There were plenty of unemployed blacksmiths and other ironworkers in Wallonia, Belgium. 
Louis de Geer paid the boat fare for them and their families if they moved to Sweden. 
He also promised to pay for the trip if they wanted to go back home. 
This is how about a thousand iron workers were lured to Sweden. 
Many of them had families with them. They are called Walloons. 
Only one in five later returned home.

Mills and general mills

There were several hundred mills in Sweden during the Great Power era. 
The mills that produced cannons were called piece mills, because cannons were called pieces. 
The mill was like a small community of its own. 
There were forges, furnaces, homes, a church, school, inn, barns and many other buildings. 
The Walloons were able to keep their French dialect and trade secrets for several generations in Sweden, because they lived together in the mills.

Why was metal so important to Sweden?