Witches in Sweden



The accused witches were rarely lonely, poor and wise women in the forest. 



They were often peasant women in their 50s with good finances and a good reputation. 



Sometimes men were also identified as wizards who practiced witchcraft. 



Children and adults spread rumors that the witches went to Blåkulla where they met the Devil.



They also took children with them. Parents were worried about their children and demanded that the accused witches be punished.



Accused women and men were interrogated and tortured if they did not confess. 



Those sentenced to death were beheaded and burned at the stake. 



In a few cases, they were burned alive.



Witchcraft accusations cease



Witchcraft accusations spread from Dalarna and Norrland down to Stockholm. 



In just a few years, over 300 accused witches were executed and burned in Sweden. 



But at a hearing in Stockholm, 15-year-old witch witness Annika Thomsdotter of Stockholm began to cry. 



She admitted that she had lied about her Blåkulla trips.



Now judges and others began to doubt the children's testimony.



More children admitted that they had made up everything about the witches. 



They were sentenced to be beaten with rice. Some were also executed.



The devil offered them terrible food.



Sorry, I didn't mean to!



Where do you think the children got their witch stories from?



Witches in Europe



Women and men who knew a lot about magic were called witches and wizards. 



They used witchcraft to harm others or to bring themselves good fortune.



Witchcraft had been around for a long time. 



But it was when priests in Europe started to believe that sorcerers worshipped the Devil instead of God that it became really dangerous. 



In the 15th century, a couple of horny priests in Germany had written the book Häxhammaren,



in which they told about witches and how to expose them through torture. 



Over 50,000 people were executed as witches in Europe.



The witch hunt came late to Sweden. 



What was special about Sweden was that many children testified and pointed out the witches.



Blåkulla



There were many different rumors about Blåkulla. 



The witches could go there with the children on a broom or an upside-down cow. 



The Devil was waiting at Blåkulla. He cut the visitors' fingers. 



With their own blood he wrote their names in a big book. 



They had to renounce their faith in God. The Devil threw a party with music, dancing and food. 



The food could be whole roasted children with frogs, toads and snakes in a sauce of bat blood. 



It was accompanied by wine from the manure well.