He had been trained for the task, but at Council meetings he was often silent and had a stomach ache. 



Sometimes he vomited. But because it was an autocracy, he was in charge of everything. 



When he wasn't running the country, he spent his time partying and getting up to mischief. No one dared to tell him. 



He ripped the wigs off old noblemen and rode around the city at night with his comrades, smashing windows. 



Once he sent for dogs, calves and sheep to train in sabre slashing. 



He beheaded the animals and threw their heads out of the window into the street.



Karl's grandmother Hedvig Eleonora was worried.



Off to war



Sweden's enemies Tsar Peter in Russia, 



the Polish king and the Danish king did not believe that the young Charles would be able to defend Sweden. 



So they started a war against Sweden at the same time to conquer the country. 



This is called the Great Northern War. 



Charles XII had to go to war with tens of thousands of Swedish soldiers. 



At first, Charles was very successful. The Danes were defeated. 



At the Battle of Narva in Estonia in 1701, the Swedes won a great victory against the Russians.



The Swedish army also defeated Poland. 



Word of the young king's prowess in war spread across Europe.



Charles decided to overthrow Tsar Peter and marched his army into Russia. 



But in 1709 he lost a major battle at the city of Poltava.



Thousands of Swedes were taken prisoner. 



Those who escaped fled with Charles across the Russian steppe to Turkey (the Ottoman Empire). 



Charles wanted the Sultan (King) of Turkey to help him against Russia. 



At first the Sultan was friendly, but after a few years he grew tired of Charles and tried to get him to leave. 



In 1715, Charles returned to Sweden. 



By then he had ruled Sweden by letter since 1700.



What are the good and bad things about becoming King at the age of 15?



RUSSIA, NARVA, POLAND, poltava, bender, ottoman, empire.



Charles XII got to see many places in Europe.



Charles XII was known for living simply, wearing simple clothes and not wearing the wigs that were in fashion.



But when he rode home from Turkey, he wore this wig to avoid being recognized.